# Chronic care provision in general practices and association with patient level outcomes: a nationwide cohort study.

<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//NLM//DTD JATS (Z39.96) Journal Archiving and Interchange DTD with MathML3 v1.3 20210610//EN" "JATS-archivearticle1-3-mathml3.dtd"> 
<article xmlns:ali="http://www.niso.org/schemas/ali/1.0/" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" article-type="research-article" dtd-version="1.3"><?properties open_access?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierValue -//Springer-Verlag//DTD A++ V2.4//EN?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierType public?><?SourceDTD.DTDName A++V2.4.dtd?><?SourceDTD.Version 2.4?><?ConverterInfo.XSLTName springer2nlmx2.xsl?><?ConverterInfo.Version 1?><processing-meta base-tagset="archiving" mathml-version="3.0" table-model="xhtml" tagset-family="jats"><restricted-by>pmc</restricted-by></processing-meta><front><journal-meta><journal-id journal-id-type="nlm-ta">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-id journal-id-type="iso-abbrev">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-title-group><journal-title>BMC Medicine</journal-title></journal-title-group><issn pub-type="epub">1741-7015</issn><publisher><publisher-name>BioMed Central</publisher-name><publisher-loc>London</publisher-loc></publisher></journal-meta>
<article-meta><article-id pub-id-type="pmcid">12232575</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="pmid">40619395</article-id>
<article-id pub-id-type="publisher-id">4239</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12916-025-04239-z</article-id><article-categories><subj-group subj-group-type="heading"><subject>Research</subject></subj-group></article-categories><title-group><article-title>Chronic care provision in general practices and association with patient level outcomes: a nationwide cohort study</article-title></title-group><contrib-group><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><contrib-id contrib-id-type="orcid">http://orcid.org/0000-0003-4053-3701</contrib-id><name><surname>Prior</surname><given-names>Anders</given-names></name><address><email>anders.prior@ph.au.dk</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><contrib-id contrib-id-type="orcid">http://orcid.org/0000-0003-2916-1548</contrib-id><name><surname>Vestergaard</surname><given-names>Claus H&#x000f8;strup</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><contrib-id contrib-id-type="orcid">http://orcid.org/0000-0001-9353-3946</contrib-id><name><surname>Utoft</surname><given-names>Nynne Bech</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff5">5</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><contrib-id contrib-id-type="orcid">http://orcid.org/0000-0003-2113-5599</contrib-id><name><surname>Vedsted</surname><given-names>Peter</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff5">5</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><contrib-id contrib-id-type="orcid">http://orcid.org/0000-0001-6027-2727</contrib-id><name><surname>Smith</surname><given-names>Susan M.</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><contrib-id contrib-id-type="orcid">http://orcid.org/0009-0001-2937-4167</contrib-id><name><surname>Vestergaard</surname><given-names>Mogens</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff4">4</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><contrib-id contrib-id-type="orcid">http://orcid.org/0000-0002-6354-5871</contrib-id><name><surname>Fenger-Gr&#x000f8;n</surname><given-names>Morten</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff5">5</xref></contrib><aff id="Aff1"><label>1</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/01aj84f44</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.7048.b</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 1956 2722</institution-id><institution>Research Unit for General Practice, </institution></institution-wrap>Aarhus, Denmark </aff><aff id="Aff2"><label>2</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/01aj84f44</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.7048.b</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 1956 2722</institution-id><institution>Department of Public Health, </institution><institution>Aarhus University, </institution></institution-wrap>Aarhus, Denmark </aff><aff id="Aff3"><label>3</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/02tyrky19</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.8217.c</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 1936 9705</institution-id><institution>Discipline of Public Health and Primary Care, </institution><institution>Trinity College Dublin, </institution></institution-wrap>Dublin, Ireland </aff><aff id="Aff4"><label>4</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/040r8fr65</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.154185.c</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 0512 597X</institution-id><institution>Department of Clinical Epidemiology, </institution><institution>Aarhus University Hospital, </institution></institution-wrap>Aarhus, Denmark </aff><aff id="Aff5"><label>5</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/056brkm80</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.476688.3</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 4667 764X</institution-id><institution>Medical Diagnostic Center, </institution><institution>University Clinic for Innovative Patient Pathways, Regional Hospital Central Jutland, </institution></institution-wrap>Silkeborg, Denmark </aff></contrib-group><pub-date pub-type="epub"><day>7</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="pmc-release"><day>7</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="collection"><year>2025</year></pub-date><volume>23</volume><elocation-id>403</elocation-id><history><date date-type="received"><day>6</day><month>6</month><year>2024</year></date><date date-type="accepted"><day>23</day><month>6</month><year>2025</year></date></history><permissions><copyright-statement>&#x000a9; The Author(s) 2025</copyright-statement><copyright-year>2025</copyright-year><license><ali:license_ref specific-use="textmining" content-type="ccbyncndlicense">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ali:license_ref><license-p><bold>Open Access</bold> This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed material. You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/">http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ext-link>.</license-p></license></permissions><abstract id="Abs1"><sec><title>Background</title><p id="Par8">General practice provides long-term care for most people living with long-term conditions, but the impact of generic chronic care provision on patient outcomes has not been examined on a national level. We aimed to investigate whether the provision of chronic care services in general practice is associated with potentially inappropriate medications (PIMs) and potentially preventable hospitalisations in listed patients.</p></sec><sec><title>Methods</title><p id="Par9">Nationwide cohort study using linked health registry data covering 4.42 million patients (18&#x02009;+&#x02009;years) listed with general practices in Denmark in 2019 (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;1769). The exposure was the patient&#x02019;s practice listing. Practices were grouped evenly into low, medium, or high level of service provision (chronic care consultations, chronic care procedures, and daytime consultations) after adjustment for patient case-mix and multimorbidity. Sub-group analyses were based on list size, morbidity load, deprivation score, and urbanisation. The outcomes at patient level were number of patient days with PIMs (modified STOPP-START criteria) and number of potentially preventable hospitalisations.</p></sec><sec><title>Results</title><p id="Par10">In practices providing high levels of chronic care consultations, the listed patients had a 1.2% lower risk of PIMs compared to the medium-level group (incidence rate ratio [IRR] 0.988, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.977 to 0.999, corresponding to 3600 fewer patient years of PIMs per year) and an IRR of 0.964 (95% CI 0.927 to 1.002) for potentially preventable hospitalisations. In practices providing high levels of chronic care procedures, patients had a 1.7% lower risk of PIMs (IRR 0.983, 95% CI 0.972 to 0.993, 5500 fewer patient years of PIMs) and an 8.6% lower risk of potentially preventable hospitalisations (IRR 0.914, 95% CI 0.879 to 0.950, 3700 fewer potentially preventable hospitalisations per year). High levels of daytime consultations were associated with higher risk of PIMs, but not with potentially preventable hospitalisations. We found an inverse dose&#x02013;response relationship between chronic care provision and adverse outcomes. The findings were stable between different practice characteristics and patient populations.</p></sec><sec><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par11">Patients experienced fewer potentially inappropriate medications and potentially preventable hospitalisations if listed at a general practice with high chronic care provision, regardless of other practice characteristics.</p></sec><sec><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12916-025-04239-z.</p></sec></abstract><kwd-group xml:lang="en"><title>Keywords</title><kwd>Primary health care</kwd><kwd>Cohort studies</kwd><kwd>Chronic disease</kwd><kwd>Patient admission</kwd><kwd>Medicine</kwd><kwd>Treatment outcome</kwd><kwd>Denmark</kwd></kwd-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="FundRef">http://dx.doi.org/10.13039/501100009708</institution-id><institution>Novo Nordisk Fonden</institution></institution-wrap></funding-source><award-id>NNF18OC0031194</award-id><award-id>NNF18OC0031194</award-id><award-id>NNF23SA0082354</award-id></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>General Practice Research Foundation, Central Denmark Region</institution></funding-source></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="FundRef">http://dx.doi.org/10.13039/100008363</institution-id><institution>Kr&#x000e6;ftens Bek&#x000e6;mpelse</institution></institution-wrap></funding-source><award-id>R330-A20465</award-id><award-id>R330-A20465</award-id></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>Copenhagen University</institution></funding-source></award-group><open-access><p>Open access funding provided by Copenhagen University</p></open-access></funding-group><custom-meta-group><custom-meta><meta-name>issue-copyright-statement</meta-name><meta-value>&#x000a9; BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2025</meta-value></custom-meta></custom-meta-group></article-meta></front><body><sec id="Sec2"><title>Background</title><p id="Par19">Healthcare systems are under significant pressure due to demographic changes, with population ageing and increased prevalence of chronic conditions [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>]. In Denmark, general practitioners (GPs) provide community-based care for most patients with long-term conditions and act as gatekeepers to the hospital sector. Chronic care consultations are defined as guideline-based GP services offered for chronic conditions. In these consultations, disease status, test results, and medications are reviewed, and a treatment plan is agreed. Routine chronic care check-ups and medication reviews in general practice may reduce the need for specialist treatment in hospitals, reduce ambulatory care sensitive admission, improve appropriateness of prescribing and disease-specific patient outcomes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>], and ensure continuity of care, which is known to improve health outcomes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>].
</p><p id="Par20">Extensive research has explored disparity in health care [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>] and for the provision of chronic care services in general practice [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>]. Variation may reflect differences in the population served, but it may be unwarranted if not attributed to patient characteristics. Unwarranted variation could indicate suboptimal quality or costly inefficient care, which may lead to potentially preventable hospital admissions or inappropriate medications [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>]. In primary care, chronic care variation has been linked to health inequalities and the presence of inverse care law mechanisms, i.e. the availability of good medical care tends to vary inversely with the need for it in the population served [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>]. However, although unwarranted variation is undesirable from a clinical point of view, its historical presence represents a valuable scientific resource. Because GP listing is considered random in relation to the practice level of chronic care service, the practice variation in chronic care provision can be used as an instrument to investigate patient outcomes of this natural experiment. Such variation analysis may reduce bias from the relationship between treatment indication and patient outcomes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR21">21</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR22">22</xref>]. To our knowledge, the impact of practice variation in intensity of chronic care provision on patient outcomes has not been evaluated at a population level.</p><p id="Par21">In this study, we calculated the use of chronic care services for each general practice in Denmark correcting for characteristics of the listed patients; the aim was to investigate whether the practice-specific utilisation of chronic care services was associated with potentially inappropriate medications and potentially preventable hospitalisations in the listed patients. We also aimed to examine whether the magnitude of such association depended on practice and patient characteristics, including the level of multimorbidity.</p><p id="Par22">The overall hypothesis was that a high level of chronic care provision would be associated with positive health outcomes.</p></sec><sec id="Sec3"><title>Methods</title><sec id="Sec4"><title>Study population and setting</title><p id="Par23">We performed a population-based cohort study, including all Danish residents above 18&#x000a0;years of age who were listed with a general practice and had been residing in Denmark for at least five consecutive years. The data was linked through the unique identification number assigned to all residents in Denmark to obtain individual-level data from Danish national registers [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>]. The study period started on 1 January 2019 and lasted until death, emigration, or end-of-study on 31 December 2019, whichever came first. This period was chosen to avoid the influence of the coronavirus pandemic.</p><p id="Par24">The Danish universal healthcare system is mainly publicly funded, and GPs work as independent primary care contractors in a remuneration system based on a mix of per capita and fee-for-service payments [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>]. Nearly all residents (99%) are listed with a practice with one or more GPs. Patients can change to another practice for a small fee (if the list is open), or for free if they move to another area. Citizens have free access to medical services, including acute and chronic care services by GPs, private practice specialists, and the hospital sector [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>]. GPs provide ordinary daytime consultations (physical attendance), e-mail consultations, telephone consultations, and home visits. Additionally, GPs provide specific chronic care services, including chronic care consultations (annual consultation dedicated to a specific chronic condition and often including a patient health assessment, medication review, lifestyle talk, and goal setting). These consultations are often preceded by chronic care procedures, e.g. paraclinical measurements of blood-glucose level, electrocardiograms, lung function tests, and at-home measurements of blood pressure. Healthcare performance measures and service provision rates for practices are not publicly available.</p></sec><sec id="Sec5"><title>Data sources</title><p id="Par25">Danish registers provided complete and validated high-quality data on age, sex, civil status, vital status (Danish Civil Registration System) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>], ethnicity, household disposable income, educational attainment, employment status (Statistics Denmark) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>], prescription medicines (Danish National Prescription Register) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR26">26</xref>], primary care service provision (Danish National Health Service Register) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR27">27</xref>], outpatient clinic and discharge ICD-10 diagnoses, and hospital admissions (Danish National Patient Register and Danish Psychiatric Central Register) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR28">28</xref>].</p><p id="Par26">The Danish Multimorbidity Index algorithm provided information on 39 long-term physical and mental conditions [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR29">29</xref>]. The Patient List Database was used to create the link between patients and their general practice; GP clinic identifier (provider number) was shared for partnership practices with more than one GP (approx. 70% of clinics). Clinics with less than 500 listed patient years were excluded as they might represent newly started or liquidated practices, or a special administrative unit.</p></sec><sec id="Sec6"><title>Exposure</title><p id="Par27">The exposure for each patient was the frequency of chronic care services provision in the general practice, in which they were listed. The exposure had two dimensions, chronic care consultations and chronic care procedures, which were studied separately. The service provision was calculated based on remuneration codes (see coding definitions in Additional file 1: Table S1) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>] and practice-specific propensity to provide services was calculated as the ratio between observed number of services and expected number of services according to a prediction model based on register-based information on morbidities and sociodemographic factors for each patient in the practice. The case-mix was defined by baseline patient characteristics (details in Statistical analyses section below). The level of provided daytime consultations was also included as an overall estimate of activity and between-practice variation.</p></sec><sec id="Sec7"><title>Outcomes</title><p id="Par28">We assessed two outcomes at patient level: the number of days with potentially inappropriate medications (PIMs) and the number of potentially preventable hospital admissions based on ambulatory care sensitive conditions (ACSCs).</p><p id="Par29">PIMs were defined as days of exposure to potentially inappropriate medications, i.e. inappropriate drug-drug and drug-disease combinations that would prompt treatment discontinuation (potential overtreatment) or combinations that would suggest medication initiation (potential undertreatment) based on a modified version of the STOPP/START criteria [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>]. These criteria have been adapted to Danish registers by combining data on redeemed prescriptions and diagnoses, which has resulted in an algorithm that identifies periods of time when an individual was subject to PIMs [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>] (PIM coding definitions in Additional file 1). Patients could contribute with PIMs time more than once if having multiple concurrent PIMs.</p><p id="Par30">ACSCs were defined as conditions for which hospitalisation might be preventable if optimal first-line treatment is provided in primary care [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>]. Potentially preventable hospitalisations included eight ACSC definitions from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality and four ACSCs based on previous Danish studies: angina without concomitant cardiovascular procedures, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation, chronic heart failure exacerbation, diabetes with short-term complications, diabetes with long-term complications, uncontrolled diabetes, hypertension, appendicitis with perforation, bacterial pneumonia, diabetes-related lower extremity amputations, urinary tract infections, and adult asthma exacerbations [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR31">31</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR32">32</xref>]. Hospital diagnoses were used to identify ACSC-related hospitalisations.</p></sec><sec id="Sec8"><title>Statistical analyses</title><p id="Par31">In a preliminary analysis step, we constructed multivariate Poisson models to predict the number of each type of service based on time-at-risk and baseline covariate status (age group, sex, ethnicity, cohabitation status, household disposable income, employment status, education attainment, and indicators for each of the 39 conditions in the multimorbidity index, coding definitions in Additional file 1: Tables S2 and S3) for each patient in the population. Second, we summed the observed and the predicted number of services for all patients listed with each practice. Subsequently, we divided these two aggregate measures to obtain a practice-specific observed-to-expected (O/E) ratio to indicate whether a practice delivered more (O/E&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;1) or less (O/E&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;1) services than expected given the composition of their patient population. The O/E ratios (one per exposure per practice) were ranked and divided into tertiles (i.e. low, medium, or high level of provided care). The expected and the observed number of services were analysed using a jack-knife type approach, i.e. the contribution of each patient&#x02019;s service code outcome was subtracted from the practice score.</p><p id="Par32">In the main analysis, we estimated the association between practice provision tertile and patient risk using multivariate Poisson models producing patient-level incidence rate ratios (IRRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) calculated using cluster robust variance estimation with practice as the cluster unit. Patient risk was quantified as the number of days with PIMs (START, STOPP, and total) and the number of potentially preventable hospitalisations, respectively. These analyses were also adjusted for all baseline patient characteristics.</p><p id="Par33">In a pre-planned supplementary sub-group analysis of the relation between practice characteristics and chronic care provision, included practices were divided into three equally sized groups based on their patient list size, overall morbidity load, socioeconomic deprivation score, and degree of urbanisation. The morbidity load for each practice was calculated as the mean number of chronic conditions per patient (captured for each patient by the multimorbidity index) in all the listed patients. The deprivation score for each practice was calculated with the Danish Deprivation Index score (version 2), which included educational level, labour market attachment, ethnicity, income and assets, and cohabitation status of the patient case-mix [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR33">33</xref>] (see details in Additional file 1: Table S4). Urbanisation degree was based on the number of listed patients living in urban areas.</p><p id="Par34">The estimated absolute number of outcomes associated with being listed in a high-providing practice or a low-providing practice compared to a medium-providing practice was calculated in two steps. First, the observed outcomes for each practice group were divided by its adjusted IRR to produce estimated outcomes if treated as the medium-providing practice group. Second, the difference between the observed outcomes and the estimated outcomes (if treated as medium-providing practice) was expressed as excess days with PIMs and excess potentially preventable hospitalisations, respectively.</p><p id="Par35">All analyses were performed as complete case analysis in Stata 18, College Station, TX. The reporting of this study followed the Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (STROBE) guidelines [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR34">34</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec9"><title>Patient and public involvement</title><p id="Par36">The Deep End Denmark organisation, representing GPs in deprived areas, provided input to the analyses. No patients were involved in the design, the conduct, or the interpretation of the study. The published results will be disseminated to patients, GPs, lay people, and policymakers in Denmark through media, academic institutions, and professional bodies.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec10"><title>Results</title><p id="Par37">During the study period, 1769 practices participated with a total of 4.35 million at-risk patient years (see sample characteristics in Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref>). A total of 1.02 million chronic care consultations and 1.76 million chronic care procedures were provided. In the same period, the study population had 32.5 million general daytime consultations.
<table-wrap id="Tab1"><label>Table&#x000a0;1</label><caption><p>Study population characteristics</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left">Characteristic</th><th align="left"/><th align="left">Risk time (years)</th><th align="left">%</th><th align="left">Unique persons</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left" rowspan="9">Age</td><td align="left">18&#x02013;29</td><td align="left">805,555</td><td char="." align="char">18.52</td><td align="left">817,037</td></tr><tr><td align="left">30&#x02013;39</td><td align="left">613,876</td><td char="." align="char">14.11</td><td align="left">621,221</td></tr><tr><td align="left">40&#x02013;49</td><td align="left">729,275</td><td char="." align="char">16.76</td><td align="left">736,145</td></tr><tr><td align="left">50&#x02013;59</td><td align="left">775,165</td><td char="." align="char">17.82</td><td align="left">783,167</td></tr><tr><td align="left">60&#x02013;69</td><td align="left">647,013</td><td char="." align="char">14.87</td><td align="left">655,700</td></tr><tr><td align="left">70&#x02013;79</td><td align="left">533,781</td><td char="." align="char">12.27</td><td align="left">545,143</td></tr><tr><td align="left">80&#x02013;89</td><td align="left">206,264</td><td char="." align="char">4.74</td><td align="left">216,594</td></tr><tr><td align="left">90&#x02013;99</td><td align="left">38,285</td><td char="." align="char">0.88</td><td align="left">43,187</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02009;+&#x02009;100</td><td align="left">835</td><td char="." align="char">0.02</td><td align="left">1100</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="2">Sex</td><td align="left">Female</td><td align="left">2,212,481</td><td char="." align="char">50.86</td><td align="left">2,245,982</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Male</td><td align="left">2,137,568</td><td char="." align="char">49.14</td><td align="left">2,173,312</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="3">Ethnicity</td><td align="left">Danish</td><td align="left">3,883,247</td><td char="." align="char">89.27</td><td align="left">3,942,304</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Western</td><td align="left">159,277</td><td char="." align="char">3.66</td><td align="left">163,999</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Non-western</td><td align="left">307,525</td><td char="." align="char">7.07</td><td align="left">312,991</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="3">Cohabitation status</td><td align="left">Single</td><td align="left">1,655,722</td><td char="." align="char">38.06</td><td align="left">1,691,989</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Married</td><td align="left">2,035,850</td><td char="." align="char">46.80</td><td align="left">2,062,081</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Cohabitating</td><td align="left">658,477</td><td char="." align="char">15.14</td><td align="left">665,224</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="5">Household disposable income</td><td align="left">1st quintile</td><td align="left">602,361</td><td char="." align="char">13.85</td><td align="left">616,077</td></tr><tr><td align="left">2nd</td><td align="left">764,844</td><td char="." align="char">17.58</td><td align="left">783,411</td></tr><tr><td align="left">3rd</td><td align="left">892,587</td><td char="." align="char">20.52</td><td align="left">906,928</td></tr><tr><td align="left">4th</td><td align="left">1,010,786</td><td char="." align="char">23.24</td><td align="left">1,021,947</td></tr><tr><td align="left">5th quintile</td><td align="left">1,079,470</td><td char="." align="char">24.82</td><td align="left">1,090,931</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="2">Employment status</td><td align="left">Working</td><td align="left">2,690,836</td><td char="." align="char">61.86</td><td align="left">2,715,941</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Not working</td><td align="left">1,659,213</td><td char="." align="char">38.14</td><td align="left">1,703,353</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="4">Educational attainment</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02264;&#x02009;10&#x000a0;years</td><td align="left">1,139,981</td><td char="." align="char">26.21</td><td align="left">1,163,466</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;10 and&#x02009;&#x02264;&#x02009;15&#x000a0;years</td><td align="left">2,045,812</td><td char="." align="char">47.03</td><td align="left">2,073,831</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;15&#x000a0;years</td><td align="left">1,078,649</td><td char="." align="char">24.80</td><td align="left">1,093,025</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Missing</td><td align="left">85,606</td><td char="." align="char">1.97</td><td align="left">88,972</td></tr></tbody></table></table-wrap></p><p id="Par38">There was a factor three difference in the unadjusted observed rate of chronic care consultation between high-providing and low-providing practices (Additional file 1: Table S5). The adjusted variation in service provision level is visualised in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>, with O/E ratio cut-points for the patients listed in high-, medium-, and low-providing practices. In unadjusted numbers, more chronic care consultations were provided per person-year in practices with high morbidity load and in practices with a high number of patients, but not in practices located in deprived areas (Additional file 1: Table S6).<fig id="Fig1"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;1</label><caption><p>General practice variation in service provision. O/E: observed/expected. The x-axis represents the patients in the practices, sorted and listed with the lowest O/E ratio to the left</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4239_Fig1_HTML" id="MO1"/></fig></p><p id="Par39">The practice level of provided <italic>chronic care consultations</italic> was inversely associated with PIMs in a dose&#x02013;response relationship. Patients in high-providing practices were subject to a 1.2% lower risk of PIMs (IRR 0.988, 95% CI 0.977&#x02013;0.999), and patients in low-providing practices were subject to a 3.3% higher risk of PIMs (IRR 1.033, 95% CI 1.022&#x02013;1.044) compared to patients in medium-providing practices (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>). We observed no significant association with potentially preventable hospitalisations (high provision: IRR 0.964, 95% CI 0.927&#x02013;1.002; low provision: IRR 0.991, 95% CI 0.954&#x02013;1.029).<fig id="Fig2"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;2</label><caption><p>Incidence rate ratios of patient outcomes by general practice service provision</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4239_Fig2_HTML" id="MO2"/></fig></p><p id="Par40">Similarly, the practice level of provided <italic>chronic care procedures</italic> was inversely associated with PIMs and with potentially preventable hospitalisations in a similar dose&#x02013;response relationship. Patients in high-providing practices were subject to a 1.7% lower risk of PIMs (IRR 0.983, 95% CI 0.972&#x02013;0.993) and an 8.6% lower risk of potentially preventable hospitalisations (IRR 0.914, 95% CI 0.879&#x02013;0.950) compared to patients in medium-providing practices. Conversely, patients in low-providing practices were subject to a 5.1% higher risk of PIMs (IRR 1.051, 95% CI 1.040, 1.062) and a 6.8% higher risk of potentially preventable hospitalisations (IRR 1.068, 95% CI 1.028&#x02013;1.111) compared to patients in medium-providing practices (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>).</p><p id="Par41">High provision of general daytime consultations was associated with higher risk of PIMs, but otherwise we observed no associations between provision level and outcomes (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>).</p><p id="Par42">PIMs comprised both undertreatment and overtreatment. The pattern was similar for both categories, but higher IRR estimates were seen in the overtreatment category with wider confidence intervals (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig3" ref-type="fig">3</xref>).<fig id="Fig3"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;3</label><caption><p>Incidence rate ratios of potentially inappropriate medications according to service provision in general practice. Undertreatment represents the modified START criteria, and overtreatment represents the modified STOPP criteria of potentially inappropriate medication</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4239_Fig3_HTML" id="MO3"/></fig></p><sec id="Sec11"><title>Excess outcomes</title><p id="Par43">In absolute terms, practices providing high levels of chronic care consultations accounted for 3600 fewer patient years of PIMs than would have been expected if their listed patients had the same PIMs incidence as patients in medium-providing practices. Correspondingly, the low-providing practices accounted for 10,300 more patient years of PIMs.</p><p id="Par44">Similarly, practices providing high levels of chronic care procedures accounted for 5500 fewer patient years of PIMs and 3700 fewer potentially preventable hospitalisations per year. Practices providing low levels of chronic care procedures accounted for 15,200 more patient years of PIMs and 2700 more potentially preventable hospitalisations per year (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref>).
<table-wrap id="Tab2"><label>Table&#x000a0;2</label><caption><p>Absolute and excess patient outcomes according to service provision in general practice</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left">Outcome by service</th><th align="left">Provision level tertile</th><th align="left">Observed (&#x000d7;&#x02009;1000)</th><th align="left">Total risk time (1000&#x000a0;years)</th><th align="left">Rate</th><th align="left">IRR (95% CI)</th><th align="left">Estimated if as medium (&#x000d7;&#x02009;1000)</th><th align="left">Excess outcomes*</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">Potentially inappropriate medication</td><td align="left"/><td char="." align="char"/><td char="." align="char"/><td char="." align="char"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="3">Chronic care consultations</td><td align="left">High</td><td char="." align="char">296.2</td><td char="." align="char">1449.9</td><td char="." align="char">0.204</td><td align="left">0.988 (0.977, 0.999)</td><td align="left">299.8</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;3600</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Medium</td><td char="." align="char">315.9</td><td char="." align="char">1471.2</td><td char="." align="char">0.215</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left">Ref</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Low</td><td char="." align="char">325.2</td><td char="." align="char">1428.9</td><td char="." align="char">0.228</td><td align="left">1.033 (1.022, 1.044)</td><td align="left">314.9</td><td align="left">10,300</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="3">Chronic care procedures</td><td align="left">High</td><td char="." align="char">309.9</td><td char="." align="char">1458.7</td><td char="." align="char">0.212</td><td align="left">0.983 (0.972, 0.993)</td><td align="left">315.4</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;5500</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Medium</td><td char="." align="char">313.9</td><td char="." align="char">1454.4</td><td char="." align="char">0.216</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left">Ref</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Low</td><td char="." align="char">313.6</td><td char="." align="char">1436.9</td><td char="." align="char">0.218</td><td align="left">1.051 (1.040, 1.062)</td><td align="left">298.4</td><td align="left">15,200</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="3">Daytime consultations</td><td align="left">High</td><td char="." align="char">308.1</td><td char="." align="char">1446.9</td><td char="." align="char">0.213</td><td align="left">1.019 (1.008, 1.030)</td><td align="left">302.4</td><td align="left">5700</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Medium</td><td char="." align="char">310.2</td><td char="." align="char">1451.6</td><td char="." align="char">0.214</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left">Ref</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Low</td><td char="." align="char">319.1</td><td char="." align="char">1451.5</td><td char="." align="char">0.220</td><td align="left">1.007 (0.996, 1.019)</td><td align="left">316.8</td><td align="left">2300</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Potentially preventable hospitalisations</td><td align="left"/><td char="." align="char"/><td char="." align="char"/><td char="." align="char"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="3">Chronic care consultations</td><td align="left">High</td><td char="." align="char">38.3</td><td char="." align="char">1449.9</td><td char="." align="char">0.026</td><td align="left">0.964 (0.927, 1.002)</td><td align="left">39.7</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;1400</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Medium</td><td char="." align="char">41.9</td><td char="." align="char">1471.2</td><td char="." align="char">0.028</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left">Ref</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Low</td><td char="." align="char">42.1</td><td char="." align="char">1428.9</td><td char="." align="char">0.029</td><td align="left">0.991 (0.954, 1.029)</td><td align="left">42.5</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;400</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="3">Chronic care procedures</td><td align="left">High</td><td char="." align="char">38.8</td><td char="." align="char">1458.7</td><td char="." align="char">0.027</td><td align="left">0.914 (0.879, 0.950)</td><td align="left">42.5</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;3700</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Medium</td><td char="." align="char">41.8</td><td char="." align="char">1454.4</td><td char="." align="char">0.029</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left">Ref</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Low</td><td char="." align="char">41.7</td><td char="." align="char">1436.9</td><td char="." align="char">0.029</td><td align="left">1.068 (1.028, 1.111)</td><td align="left">39.0</td><td align="left">2700</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="3">Daytime consultations</td><td align="left">High</td><td char="." align="char">40.1</td><td char="." align="char">1446.9</td><td char="." align="char">0.028</td><td align="left">1.025 (0.988, 1.063)</td><td align="left">39.1</td><td align="left">1000</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Medium</td><td char="." align="char">40.6</td><td char="." align="char">1451.6</td><td char="." align="char">0.028</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left">Ref</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Low</td><td char="." align="char">41.6</td><td char="." align="char">1451.5</td><td char="." align="char">0.029</td><td align="left">0.999 (0.959, 1.040)</td><td align="left">41.6</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;100</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>*Number of excess outcomes for the group if the patients listed with these practices had the same outcome incidence as the medium-level group (negative numbers represent avoided outcomes). Numbers are rounded to the nearest hundreds</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p><p id="Par45"><italic>IRR</italic> incidence rate ratio, <italic>CI</italic> confidence interval.</p></sec><sec id="Sec12"><title>Practice characteristics</title><p id="Par46">Stratified analyses investigating practice characteristics (patient list size, morbidity load, deprivation score, and degree of urbanisation) showed a similar overall pattern between practice service provision and patient outcomes as the one seen in the main analysis (<italic>p</italic> value of differences between strata&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;0.05), except that patients in practices located in urban areas benefitted less from high provision of chronic care consultations on the PIMs outcome compared to patients in practices located in rural areas (IRR 0.999 versus 0.953, <italic>p</italic> value 0.004). Deprivation stratification is shown in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig4" ref-type="fig">4</xref>. Details on the other outcomes are shown in Additional file 1: Figs. S1&#x02013;S6.<fig id="Fig4"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;4</label><caption><p>Incidence rate ratios of patient outcomes according to service provision in general practice, stratified by practice deprivation index. DADI: Danish Deprivation Index</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4239_Fig4_HTML" id="MO4"/></fig></p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec13"><title>Discussion</title><p id="Par47">This nationwide cohort study showed that individuals listed with a general practice providing high levels of chronic care had lower risk of potentially inappropriate medications and potentially preventable hospitalisations. The associations showed a dose&#x02013;response relationship pattern. The variation in chronic care provision could account for thousands of PIMs years and potentially preventable hospitalisations. Overall, the associations were not correlated with practice characteristics in terms of list size, morbidity load, deprivation score, or degree of urbanisation.</p><sec id="Sec14"><title>Strengths and limitations</title><p id="Par48">A major methodological strength of this study was the reduced risk of confounding by indication. Patients with chronic conditions are more likely than healthy people to receive chronic care treatment, but patients also have higher risk of hospitalisation due to their conditions, and one might mistakenly attribute any difference solely to their treatment. Utilising the variation in chronic care provision between practices overcomes this challenge by studying a natural experiment and hence mimicking traits from randomised controlled trials [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR22">22</xref>]. In our study, patients are randomly assigned to a given chronic care provision level based on the assumption that this level does not affect the GP listing, as it is largely an uninformed choice and practically unknown to the patient. Furthermore, our large cohort sample from the entire nation with virtually no-loss to follow-up resulted in high statistical precision, reduced risk of selection bias, and high degree of external generalisability. Owing to the Danish registers, we were able to obtain comprehensive and prospectively collected data on all Danish adults and their general practice, including detailed information on chronic conditions and multimorbidity. The reporting of provided GP services is incentivised through a practice remuneration model, and this ensures high quality and completeness of data.</p><p id="Par49">The study had several limitations. We had no data on the individual GP&#x02019;s or staff member&#x02019;s inclination to provide chronic care services as data on remunerated healthcare services were pooled for each practice, i.e. we observed the mean service provision and may, therefore, have underestimated the true variation. However, GPs working together in practices generally plan and share service provision and share support staff; this makes it more likely that there is a practice effect beyond that of individual GPs. PIMs and potentially preventable hospitalisations represent outcomes that are related to quality of care, but they only apply on the systemic level when comparing large number of patients and practices. The need for certain medication combinations may rely on sound individual clinical choices made by the physician and the patient, which we had no way to assess, and hospitalisations even for specific ambulatory care sensitive conditions may not be truly preventable for an individual patient. The algorithm-based measurement of PIMs was based on redeemed prescriptions and may over- or underestimate the true occurrence of potentially problematic medications, but with our time-dependent approach to calculating PIM days calculations we do not expect any systematic bias. We had no information on the resources outside general practice that could influence chronic care provision, including the distance to hospital and the access to outpatient care. Even though we showed that higher levels of chronic care provision were associated with more PIMs and potentially preventable hospitalisations, we cannot infer or propose an overall correct level of chronic care for optimal health regarding other patient level outcomes, e.g. mortality or quality of life. We found statistically significant estimates for most outcomes, and a substantial number of potentially inappropriate medication days and hospitalisations could be associated with the level of chronic care provided. However, the estimated associations were weak, so the risk of residual confounding, which is always present in observational studies, should not be ignored. Causality should therefore be inferred with caution, although the design provides some robustness against the most traditional confounding problems, such as confounding by indication.</p></sec><sec id="Sec15"><title>Comparison with existing literature</title><p id="Par50">Previous evaluations of different chronic care models have shown positive effects on patient outcomes, including prevention of unplanned admissions, but the interventions have mostly targeted specific chronic conditions [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>] or have been based on a limited sample size [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR35">35</xref>]. The Quality and Outcomes Framework in the UK has been subject to various evaluations of its impact on patient outcomes. The evidence suggests that meeting targets for conditions like type 2 diabetes was associated with lower mortality rates, reduced emergency hospital admissions, and improved health outcomes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR36">36</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR37">37</xref>]. However, the literature also indicated some limitations, such as decreased quality of care in non-incentivised activities and poor patient experiences [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR38">38</xref>]. In comparison, our study evaluated a complete delivery system for chronic care management in primary care; this system is unlimited to specific chronic conditions, populations, or areas. We included patients regardless of chronic disease status or reason for encounter, also patients without any registered chronic conditions. Despite these conservative assumptions, we still found an overall positive association between chronic care provision and the investigated patient outcomes.</p><p id="Par51">Variation in healthcare utilisation has been examined in both primary and secondary care settings, e.g. as described in the Dartmouth Atlas [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>]. We used methodology developed for register-based data which quantifies the variation measure at different levels and accounts for the underlying patient case-mix [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>]. Previous studies have shown an association between chronic care provision and the geographical location of general practice clinics, indicating that high deprivation level and low socioeconomic status of listed patients was linked to lower than expected healthcare provision, i.e. evidence of the inverse care law [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR39">39</xref>]. In this study, we found that more chronic care consultations per patient were provided in clinics with a high comorbidity load, but not in deprived area clinics. However, after adjusting for patient characteristics, we found no systematic evidence that practice characteristics, i.e. composition of patient population, modified the association between the propensity to provide chronic care and patient outcomes. This may be interpreted as the efforts of providing sufficient chronic care being beneficial for patients both in practices with high and low degree of deprivation and multimorbidity. The Danish primary healthcare system includes a deprivation-weighted capitation, but it is minor compared to the fee-for-service payments and could not fully mitigate potential differences in patient needs.</p></sec><sec id="Sec16"><title>Implications</title><p id="Par52">The number of people with long-term conditions has increased dramatically over the years, and it is becoming more costly to deliver sufficient care in the hospital sector. Therefore, policymakers are now looking towards primary care for a sustainable shift in chronic care with a view to relieve the burden on hospitals, avoid fragmented care, and manage patients at the most cost-effective level of care. The unwarranted variation in the provision of chronic care services found in our study reflected underutilisation, as we accounted comprehensively for patient-related factors. Such variation may stem from practice organisation and staffing, available local resources, GP preferences, or systemic structures such as reimbursement systems. If primary care is to take on this task, it is necessary to prioritise initiatives in general practice and allocate resources to accommodate the increasing number of people with multiple conditions. If more optimal treatment of chronic conditions is achieved in primary care, the need for hospitalisations and specialised care could be reduced. Furthermore, the hospital sector must provide more support for chronic conditions in primary care. We showed a dose&#x02013;response relationship, which suggests that more chronic care could be preferable. However, little is known about which care elements are most effective in which populations, and how to prioritise efforts sustainably with limited staff and financial resources. More studies are needed to examine the best way to use primary care resources, and how to address variations and ensure equity of care.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec17"><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par53">Patients experienced fewer PIMs and potentially preventable hospitalisations if listed at a general practice providing a high level of chronic care; this association was seen regardless of other practice characteristics and could account for a substantial number of potentially inappropriate medication days and hospitalisations. Still, the estimated effect sizes were quite small.</p></sec><sec id="Sec118" sec-type="supplementary-material"><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>
<supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM1"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4239_MOESM1_ESM.pdf"><caption><p>Additional file 1: Table S1 Classification codes for service outcomes. Table S2 Definitions of covariates. Table S3 The Danish Multimorbidity Index coding definitions. Table S4 Definitions in the Danish Deprivation Index. Table S5 Distribution of services between practices. Table S6 Distribution of services according to practice characteristics. Fig. S1 Incidence rate ratios of potentially inappropriate medications by general practice service provision and practice morbidity load. Fig. S2 Incidence rate ratios of potentially preventable hospitalisations by general practice service provision and practice morbidity load. Fig. S3 Incidence rate ratios of potentially inappropriate medications by general practice service provision and practice list size. Fig. S4 Incidence rate ratios of potentially preventable hospitalisations by general practice service provision and practice list size. Fig. S5 Incidence rate ratios of potentially inappropriate medications by general practice service provision and degree of urbanisation. Fig. S6 Incidence rate ratios of potentially preventable hospitalisations by general practice service provision and degree of urbanisation. Supplementary material: PIM criteria definitions according to the register-adapted STOPP/START criteria.</p></caption></media></supplementary-material></p></sec></body><back><glossary><title>Abbreviations</title><def-list><def-item><term>ACSC</term><def><p id="Par12">Ambulatory care sensitive condition</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CI</term><def><p id="Par13">Confidence interval</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>DADI</term><def><p id="Par14">Danish Deprivation Index</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>GP</term><def><p id="Par15">General practitioner</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>IRR</term><def><p id="Par16">Incidence rate ratio</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>O/E</term><def><p id="Par17">Observed/expected</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PIM</term><def><p id="Par18">Potential inappropriate medication</p></def></def-item></def-list></glossary><fn-group><fn><p><bold>Publisher&#x02019;s Note</bold></p><p>Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.</p></fn></fn-group><ack><title>Acknowledgements</title><p>No acknowledgements.</p></ack><notes notes-type="author-contribution"><title>Authors&#x02019;&#x000a0;contributions</title><p>AP, MFG, and MV conceived the study. AP, MFG, and CHV developed the study design and statistical methods. CV did the statistical analysis. AP wrote the first draft of the manuscript. AP, CHV, NBU, PV, SMS, MV and MFG contributed to the interpretation of data and made critical revision of the manuscript. AP and CHV had full access to the data and take responsibility for the integrity of the data and the accuracy of the data analysis. AP is the guarantors. The corresponding author attests that all listed authors meet authorship criteria and that no others meeting the criteria have been omitted. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.</p><sec id="FPar1"><title>Authors&#x02019; Twitter handles</title><p id="Par54">Twitter handles: @Anders_Prior (Anders Prior), @susanmsmith (Susan M. Smith), and @PVedsted (Peter Vedsted).</p></sec></notes><notes notes-type="funding-information"><title>Funding</title><p>Open access funding provided by Copenhagen University This study was supported by unrestricted grants from the Novo Nordisk Foundation (NNF18OC0031194) and from the General Practice Research Foundation of the Central Denmark Region. Deep End Denmark is supported by unrestricted grants from the Novo Nordic Foundation (NNF23SA0082354), the Cancer Society (R330-A20465), and the General Practice Research Foundation. All authors are independent from the funders. The funders had no role in the study design; in the collection, analysis, and interpretation of data; in the writing of the report; or in the decision to submit the article for publication.</p></notes><notes notes-type="data-availability"><title>Data availability
</title><p>Dr Anders Prior had full access to all the data in the study and takes responsibility for the integrity of the data and the accuracy of the data analysis. The dataset supporting the conclusions of this article are available at Statistics Denmark (https://www.dst.dk/en) and the Danish Health Data Authority (https://sundhedsdatastyrelsen.dk/da/english/). Data access is restricted to authorized research institutions by Danish law. Permission to access the data used in this study can be obtained following approval from the Danish Health Authority.</p></notes><notes><title>Declarations</title><notes id="FPar2"><title>Ethics approval and consent to participate</title><p id="Par55">The Danish Data Protection Agency, the Danish Health Data Authority, and Statistics Denmark approved the study (Project ID 707253). Ethical approval and informed consent were not needed as the study was based on de-identified register data encrypted and stored by Statistics Denmark.</p></notes><notes id="FPar3"><title>Consent for publication</title><p id="Par56">Not applicable.</p></notes><notes id="FPar4" notes-type="COI-statement"><title>Competing interests
</title><p id="Par57">The authors declare no competing interests.</p></notes></notes><ref-list id="Bib1"><title>References
</title><ref id="CR1"><label>1.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR1" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Vos</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Barber</surname><given-names>RM</given-names></name><name><surname>Bell</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Bertozzi-Villa</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Biryukov</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Bolliger</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Global, regional, and national incidence, prevalence, and years lived with disability for 301 acute and chronic diseases and injuries in 188 countries, 1990&#x02013;2013: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2013</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2015</year><volume>386</volume><issue>9995</issue><fpage>743</fpage><lpage>800</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/S0140-6736(15)60692-4</pub-id><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26063472</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR1" publication-type="journal">Vos T, Barber RM, Bell B, Bertozzi-Villa A, Biryukov S, Bolliger I, et al. Global, regional, and national incidence, prevalence, and years lived with disability for 301 acute and chronic diseases and injuries in 188 countries, 1990&#x02013;2013: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2013. Lancet. 2015;386(9995):743&#x02013;800.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26063472</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR2"><label>2.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR2" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Barnett</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Mercer</surname><given-names>SW</given-names></name><name><surname>Norbury</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Watt</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Wyke</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Guthrie</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Epidemiology of multimorbidity and implications for health care, research, and medical education: a cross-sectional study</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2012</year><volume>380</volume><issue>9836</issue><fpage>37</fpage><lpage>43</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/S0140-6736(12)60240-2</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 22579043?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22579043</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR2" publication-type="journal">Barnett K, Mercer SW, Norbury M, Watt G, Wyke S, Guthrie B. Epidemiology of multimorbidity and implications for health care, research, and medical education: a cross-sectional study. Lancet. 2012;380(9836):37&#x02013;43.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22579043</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR3"><label>3.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR3" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lozano</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Fullman</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Mumford</surname><given-names>JE</given-names></name><name><surname>Knight</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Barthelemy</surname><given-names>CM</given-names></name><name><surname>Abbafati</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Measuring universal health coverage based on an index of effective coverage of health services in 204 countries and territories, 1990&#x02013;2019: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2020</year><volume>396</volume><issue>10258</issue><fpage>1250</fpage><lpage>1284</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30750-9</pub-id><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32861314</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR3" publication-type="journal">Lozano R, Fullman N, Mumford JE, Knight M, Barthelemy CM, Abbafati C, et al. Measuring universal health coverage based on an index of effective coverage of health services in 204 countries and territories, 1990&#x02013;2019: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019. Lancet. 2020;396(10258):1250&#x02013;84.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32861314</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR4"><label>4.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Reynolds R, Dennis S, Hasan I, Slewa J, Chen W, Tian D, et al. A systematic review of chronic disease management interventions in primary care. BMC Fam Pract. 2018;19(1).&#x000a0;<ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://bmcprimcare.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12875-017-0692-3#citeas">https://bmcprimcare.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12875-017-0692-3#citeas</ext-link>.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR5"><label>5.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR5" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Gorina</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Limonero</surname><given-names>JT</given-names></name><name><surname>Alvarez</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Effectiveness of primary healthcare educational interventions undertaken by nurses to improve chronic disease management in patients with diabetes mellitus, hypertension and hypercholesterolemia: a systematic review</article-title><source>Int J Nurs Stud</source><year>2018</year><volume>86</volume><fpage>139</fpage><lpage>150</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.ijnurstu.2018.06.016</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 30007585?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30007585</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR5" publication-type="journal">Gorina M, Limonero JT, Alvarez M. Effectiveness of primary healthcare educational interventions undertaken by nurses to improve chronic disease management in patients with diabetes mellitus, hypertension and hypercholesterolemia: a systematic review. Int J Nurs Stud. 2018;86:139&#x02013;50.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30007585</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR6"><label>6.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Goh LH, Siah CJR, Tam WWS, Tai ES, Young DYL. Effectiveness of the chronic care model for adults with type 2 diabetes in primary care: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Syst Rev. 2022;11(1).&#x000a0;<ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://systematicreviewsjournal.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s13643-022-02117-w#citeas">https://systematicreviewsjournal.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s13643-022-02117-w#citeas</ext-link>.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR7"><label>7.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR7" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Forbes</surname><given-names>LJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Marchand</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Doran</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Peckham</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The role of the quality and outcomes framework in the care of long-term conditions: a systematic review</article-title><source>Br J Gen Pract</source><year>2017</year><volume>67</volume><issue>664</issue><fpage>e775</fpage><lpage>e784</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.3399/bjgp17X693077</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 28947621?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28947621</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR7" publication-type="journal">Forbes LJ, Marchand C, Doran T, Peckham S. The role of the quality and outcomes framework in the care of long-term conditions: a systematic review. Br J Gen Pract. 2017;67(664):e775&#x02013;84.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28947621</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR8"><label>8.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR8" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Guthrie</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Saultz</surname><given-names>JW</given-names></name><name><surname>Freeman</surname><given-names>GK</given-names></name><name><surname>Haggerty</surname><given-names>JL</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Continuity of care matters</article-title><source>BMJ</source><year>2008</year><volume>337</volume><issue>7669</issue><fpage>548</fpage><lpage>549</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR8" publication-type="journal">Guthrie B, Saultz JW, Freeman GK, Haggerty JL. Continuity of care matters. BMJ. 2008;337(7669):548&#x02013;9.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR9"><label>9.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR9" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Haggerty</surname><given-names>JL</given-names></name><name><surname>Reid</surname><given-names>RJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Freeman</surname><given-names>GK</given-names></name><name><surname>Starfield</surname><given-names>BH</given-names></name><name><surname>Adair</surname><given-names>CE</given-names></name><name><surname>McKendry</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Continuity of care: a multidisciplinary review</article-title><source>BMJ</source><year>2003</year><volume>327</volume><issue>7425</issue><fpage>1219</fpage><lpage>1221</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1136/bmj.327.7425.1219</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 14630762?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">14630762</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR9" publication-type="journal">Haggerty JL, Reid RJ, Freeman GK, Starfield BH, Adair CE, McKendry R. Continuity of care: a multidisciplinary review. BMJ. 2003;327(7425):1219&#x02013;21.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">14630762</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR10"><label>10.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Barker I, Steventon A, Deeny SR. Association between continuity of care in general practice and hospital admissions for ambulatory care sensitive conditions: cross sectional study of routinely collected, person level data. BMJ. 2017;356:j84-j.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR11"><label>11.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR11" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Prior</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Vestergaard</surname><given-names>CH</given-names></name><name><surname>Vedsted</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Smith</surname><given-names>SM</given-names></name><name><surname>Virgilsen</surname><given-names>LF</given-names></name><name><surname>Rasmussen</surname><given-names>LA</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Healthcare fragmentation, multimorbidity, potentially inappropriate medication, and mortality: a Danish nationwide cohort study</article-title><source>BMC Med</source><year>2023</year><volume>21</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>305</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12916-023-03021-3</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 37580711?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37580711</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR11" publication-type="journal">Prior A, Vestergaard CH, Vedsted P, Smith SM, Virgilsen LF, Rasmussen LA, et al. Healthcare fragmentation, multimorbidity, potentially inappropriate medication, and mortality: a Danish nationwide cohort study. BMC Med. 2023;21(1):305.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37580711</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR12"><label>12.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">The Dartmouth Atlas Project. <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://data.dartmouthatlas.org/">https://data.dartmouthatlas.org/</ext-link>. Accessed 1 May 2025</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR13"><label>13.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR13" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Prior</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Vestergaard</surname><given-names>CH</given-names></name><name><surname>Ribe</surname><given-names>AR</given-names></name><name><surname>Sandb&#x000e6;k</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Bro</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Vedsted</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Chronic care services and variation between danish general practices: a nationwide cohort study</article-title><source>Br J Gen Pract</source><year>2021</year><volume>72</volume><issue>717</issue><fpage>e285</fpage><lpage>e292</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.3399/BJGP.2021.0419</pub-id></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR13" publication-type="journal">Prior A, Vestergaard CH, Ribe AR, Sandb&#x000e6;k A, Bro F, Vedsted P, et al. Chronic care services and variation between danish general practices: a nationwide cohort study. Br J Gen Pract. 2021;72(717):e285&#x02013;92.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR14"><label>14.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Quality AfHRa. AHRQ quality indicators&#x02014;guide to prevention quality indicators: hospital admission for ambulatory care sensitive conditions. AHRQ Pub. No. 02-R0203. Rockville, MD2001.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR15"><label>15.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR15" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>O&#x02019;Mahony</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>O&#x02019;Sullivan</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Byrne</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>O&#x02019;Connor</surname><given-names>MN</given-names></name><name><surname>Ryan</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Gallagher</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>STOPP/START criteria for potentially inappropriate prescribing in older people: version 2</article-title><source>Age Ageing</source><year>2015</year><volume>44</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>213</fpage><lpage>218</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1093/ageing/afu145</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 25324330?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25324330</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR15" publication-type="journal">O&#x02019;Mahony D, O&#x02019;Sullivan D, Byrne S, O&#x02019;Connor MN, Ryan C, Gallagher P. STOPP/START criteria for potentially inappropriate prescribing in older people: version 2. Age Ageing. 2015;44(2):213&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25324330</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR16"><label>16.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR16" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wennberg</surname><given-names>JE</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Unwarranted variations in healthcare delivery: implications for academic medical centres</article-title><source>BMJ</source><year>2002</year><volume>325</volume><issue>7370</issue><fpage>961</fpage><lpage>964</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1136/bmj.325.7370.961</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 12399352?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">12399352</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR16" publication-type="journal">Wennberg JE. Unwarranted variations in healthcare delivery: implications for academic medical centres. BMJ. 2002;325(7370):961&#x02013;4.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">12399352</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR17"><label>17.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR17" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Folland</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Stano</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Sources of small area variations in the use of medical care</article-title><source>J Health Econ</source><year>1989</year><volume>8</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>85</fpage><lpage>107</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/0167-6296(89)90010-6</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 10303558?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">10303558</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR17" publication-type="journal">Folland S, Stano M. Sources of small area variations in the use of medical care. J Health Econ. 1989;8(1):85&#x02013;107.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">10303558</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR18"><label>18.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR18" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Mercuri</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Gafni</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Medical practice variations: what the literature tells us (or does not) about what are warranted and unwarranted variations</article-title><source>J Eval Clin Pract</source><year>2011</year><volume>17</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>671</fpage><lpage>677</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1111/j.1365-2753.2011.01689.x</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 21501341?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21501341</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR18" publication-type="journal">Mercuri M, Gafni A. Medical practice variations: what the literature tells us (or does not) about what are warranted and unwarranted variations. J Eval Clin Pract. 2011;17(4):671&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21501341</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR19"><label>19.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR19" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Hart</surname><given-names>JT</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The inverse care law</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>1971</year><volume>1</volume><issue>7696</issue><fpage>405</fpage><lpage>412</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/S0140-6736(71)92410-X</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 4100731?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">4100731</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR19" publication-type="journal">Hart JT. The inverse care law. Lancet. 1971;1(7696):405&#x02013;12.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">4100731</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR20"><label>20.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR20" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Mercer</surname><given-names>SW</given-names></name><name><surname>Guthrie</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Furler</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Watt</surname><given-names>GCM</given-names></name><name><surname>Hart</surname><given-names>JT</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Multimorbidity and the inverse care law in primary care</article-title><source>BMJ</source><year>2012</year><volume>344</volume><fpage>e4152</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1136/bmj.e4152</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 22718915?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22718915</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR20" publication-type="journal">Mercer SW, Guthrie B, Furler J, Watt GCM, Hart JT. Multimorbidity and the inverse care law in primary care. BMJ. 2012;344: e4152.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22718915</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR21"><label>21.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR21" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Fenger-Gr&#x000f8;n</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Kjaersgaard</surname><given-names>MIS</given-names></name><name><surname>Parner</surname><given-names>ET</given-names></name><name><surname>Guldin</surname><given-names>M-B</given-names></name><name><surname>Vedsted</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Vestergaard</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Early treatment with talk therapy or antidepressants in severely bereaved people and risk of suicidal behavior and psychiatric illness: an instrumental variable analysis</article-title><source>Clin Epidemiol</source><year>2018</year><volume>10</volume><fpage>1013</fpage><lpage>1026</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.2147/CLEP.S157996</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 30197539?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30197539</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR21" publication-type="journal">Fenger-Gr&#x000f8;n M, Kjaersgaard MIS, Parner ET, Guldin M-B, Vedsted P, Vestergaard M. Early treatment with talk therapy or antidepressants in severely bereaved people and risk of suicidal behavior and psychiatric illness: an instrumental variable analysis. Clin Epidemiol. 2018;10:1013&#x02013;26.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30197539</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR22"><label>22.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR22" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Greenland</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>An introduction to instrumental variables for epidemiologists</article-title><source>Int J Epidemiol</source><year>2000</year><volume>29</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>722</fpage><lpage>729</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1093/ije/29.4.722</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 10922351?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">10922351</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR22" publication-type="journal">Greenland S. An introduction to instrumental variables for epidemiologists. Int J Epidemiol. 2000;29(4):722&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">10922351</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR23"><label>23.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Pedersen CB, G&#x000f8;tzsche H, M&#x000f8;ller JO, Mortensen PB. The danish civil registration system. a cohort of eight million persons. Dan Med Bull. 2006;53(4):441&#x02013;9.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR24"><label>24.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR24" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Erlangsen</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Fedyszyn</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Danish nationwide registers for public health and health-related research</article-title><source>Scand J Public Health</source><year>2015</year><volume>43</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>333</fpage><lpage>339</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1177/1403494815575193</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 25759376?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25759376</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR24" publication-type="journal">Erlangsen A, Fedyszyn I. Danish nationwide registers for public health and health-related research. Scand J Public Health. 2015;43(4):333&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25759376</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR25"><label>25.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR25" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Pedersen</surname><given-names>KM</given-names></name><name><surname>Andersen</surname><given-names>JS</given-names></name><name><surname>S&#x000f8;ndergaard</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>General practice and primary health care in Denmark</article-title><source>J Am Board Fam Med</source><year>2012</year><volume>25</volume><issue>Suppl 1</issue><fpage>S34</fpage><lpage>S38</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.3122/jabfm.2012.02.110216</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 22403249?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22403249</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR25" publication-type="journal">Pedersen KM, Andersen JS, S&#x000f8;ndergaard J. General practice and primary health care in Denmark. J Am Board Fam Med. 2012;25(Suppl 1):S34&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22403249</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR26"><label>26.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Potteg&#x000e5;rd A, Schmidt SAJ, Wallach-Kildemoes H, S&#x000f8;rensen HT, Hallas J, Schmidt M. Data resource profile: the Danish National Prescription Registry. Int J Epidemiol. 2016;25(3):dyw213-dyw.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR27"><label>27.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR27" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Andersen</surname><given-names>JS</given-names></name><name><surname>Olivarius</surname><given-names>NDF</given-names></name><name><surname>Krasnik</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The Danish National Health Service Register</article-title><source>Scand J Public Health</source><year>2011</year><volume>39</volume><issue>7 Suppl</issue><fpage>34</fpage><lpage>37</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1177/1403494810394718</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 21775348?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21775348</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR27" publication-type="journal">Andersen JS, Olivarius NDF, Krasnik A. The Danish National Health Service Register. Scand J Public Health. 2011;39(7 Suppl):34&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21775348</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR28"><label>28.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR28" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lynge</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Sandegaard</surname><given-names>JL</given-names></name><name><surname>Rebolj</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The Danish National Patient Register</article-title><source>Scand J Public Health</source><year>2011</year><volume>39</volume><issue>7 Suppl</issue><fpage>30</fpage><lpage>33</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1177/1403494811401482</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 21775347?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21775347</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR28" publication-type="journal">Lynge E, Sandegaard JL, Rebolj M. The Danish National Patient Register. Scand J Public Health. 2011;39(7 Suppl):30&#x02013;3.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21775347</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR29"><label>29.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR29" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Prior</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Fenger-Gr&#x000f8;n</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Larsen</surname><given-names>KK</given-names></name><name><surname>Larsen</surname><given-names>FB</given-names></name><name><surname>Robinson</surname><given-names>KM</given-names></name><name><surname>Nielsen</surname><given-names>MG</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The association between perceived stress and mortality among people with multimorbidity: a prospective population-based cohort study</article-title><source>Am J Epidemiol</source><year>2016</year><volume>184</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>199</fpage><lpage>210</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1093/aje/kwv324</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 27407085?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27407085</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR29" publication-type="journal">Prior A, Fenger-Gr&#x000f8;n M, Larsen KK, Larsen FB, Robinson KM, Nielsen MG, et al. The association between perceived stress and mortality among people with multimorbidity: a prospective population-based cohort study. Am J Epidemiol. 2016;184(3):199&#x02013;210.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27407085</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR30"><label>30.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Ribe AR, Christensen LD, Vestergaard CH, Prior A, Brynningsen PK, Bro F, et al. Potentially inappropriate medications (PIMs): frequency and extent of GP-related variation in PIMs: a register-based cohort study. BMJ Open. 2021;11(7):e046756-e.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR31"><label>31.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR31" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Davydow</surname><given-names>DS</given-names></name><name><surname>Ribe</surname><given-names>AR</given-names></name><name><surname>Pedersen</surname><given-names>HS</given-names></name><name><surname>Fenger-Gr&#x000f8;n</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Cerimele</surname><given-names>JM</given-names></name><name><surname>Vedsted</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Serious mental illness and risk for hospitalizations and rehospitalizations for ambulatory care-sensitive conditions in Denmark</article-title><source>Med Care</source><year>2016</year><volume>54</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>90</fpage><lpage>97</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1097/MLR.0000000000000448</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 26492210?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26492210</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR31" publication-type="journal">Davydow DS, Ribe AR, Pedersen HS, Fenger-Gr&#x000f8;n M, Cerimele JM, Vedsted P, et al. Serious mental illness and risk for hospitalizations and rehospitalizations for ambulatory care-sensitive conditions in Denmark. Med Care. 2016;54(1):90&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26492210</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR32"><label>32.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR32" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Prior</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Vestergaard</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Davydow</surname><given-names>DS</given-names></name><name><surname>Larsen</surname><given-names>KK</given-names></name><name><surname>Ribe</surname><given-names>AR</given-names></name><name><surname>Fenger-Gr&#x000f8;n</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Perceived stress, multimorbidity, and risk for hospitalizations for ambulatory care-sensitive conditions: a population-based cohort study</article-title><source>Med Care</source><year>2017</year><volume>55</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>131</fpage><lpage>139</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1097/MLR.0000000000000632</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 27579911?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27579911</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR32" publication-type="journal">Prior A, Vestergaard M, Davydow DS, Larsen KK, Ribe AR, Fenger-Gr&#x000f8;n M. Perceived stress, multimorbidity, and risk for hospitalizations for ambulatory care-sensitive conditions: a population-based cohort study. Med Care. 2017;55(2):131&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27579911</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR33"><label>33.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR33" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Pedersen</surname><given-names>AF</given-names></name><name><surname>Vedsted</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Understanding the inverse care law: a register and survey-based study of patient deprivation and burnout in general practice</article-title><source>Int J Equity Health</source><year>2014</year><volume>13</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>121</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12939-014-0121-3</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 25495229?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25495229</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR33" publication-type="journal">Pedersen AF, Vedsted P. Understanding the inverse care law: a register and survey-based study of patient deprivation and burnout in general practice. Int J Equity Health. 2014;13(1):121.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25495229</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR34"><label>34.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR34" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Von Elm</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Altman</surname><given-names>DG</given-names></name><name><surname>Egger</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Pocock</surname><given-names>SJ</given-names></name><name><surname>G&#x000f8;tzsche</surname><given-names>PC</given-names></name><name><surname>Vandenbroucke</surname><given-names>JP</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (STROBE) statement: guidelines for reporting observational studies</article-title><source>Ann Intern Med</source><year>2007</year><volume>147</volume><issue>8</issue><fpage>573</fpage><lpage>577</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.7326/0003-4819-147-8-200710160-00010</pub-id><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17938396</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR34" publication-type="journal">Von Elm E, Altman DG, Egger M, Pocock SJ, G&#x000f8;tzsche PC, Vandenbroucke JP. The Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (STROBE) statement: guidelines for reporting observational studies. Ann Intern Med. 2007;147(8):573&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17938396</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR35"><label>35.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Robusto F, Bisceglia L, Petrarolo V, Avolio F, Graps E, Attolini E, et al. The effects of the introduction of a chronic care model-based program on utilization of healthcare resources: the results of the puglia care program. BMC Health Serv Res. 2018;18(1).&#x000a0;<ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://bmchealthservres.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12913-018-3075-0#citeas">https://bmchealthservres.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12913-018-3075-0#citeas</ext-link>.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR36"><label>36.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR36" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Gunn</surname><given-names>LH</given-names></name><name><surname>McKay</surname><given-names>AJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Molokhia</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Valabhji</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Molina</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Majeed</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Associations between attainment of incentivised primary care indicators and emergency hospital admissions among type 2 diabetes patients: a population-based historical cohort study</article-title><source>J R Soc Med</source><year>2021</year><volume>114</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>299</fpage><lpage>312</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1177/01410768211005109</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 33821695?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33821695</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR36" publication-type="journal">Gunn LH, McKay AJ, Molokhia M, Valabhji J, Molina G, Majeed A, et al. Associations between attainment of incentivised primary care indicators and emergency hospital admissions among type 2 diabetes patients: a population-based historical cohort study. J R Soc Med. 2021;114(6):299&#x02013;312.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33821695</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR37"><label>37.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR37" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>McKay</surname><given-names>AJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Gunn</surname><given-names>LH</given-names></name><name><surname>Vamos</surname><given-names>EP</given-names></name><name><surname>Valabhji</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Molina</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Molokhia</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Associations between attainment of incentivised primary care diabetes indicators and mortality in an English cohort</article-title><source>Diabetes Res Clin Pract</source><year>2021</year><volume>174</volume><fpage>108746</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.diabres.2021.108746</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 33713716?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33713716</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR37" publication-type="journal">McKay AJ, Gunn LH, Vamos EP, Valabhji J, Molina G, Molokhia M, et al. Associations between attainment of incentivised primary care diabetes indicators and mortality in an English cohort. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2021;174: 108746.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33713716</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR38"><label>38.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR38" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ahmed</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Hashim</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Khankhara</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Said</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Shandakumar</surname><given-names>AT</given-names></name><name><surname>Zaman</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>What drives general practitioners in the UK to improve the quality of care? A systematic literature review</article-title><source>BMJ Open Qual</source><year>2021</year><volume>10</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>e001127</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1136/bmjoq-2020-001127</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 33574115?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33574115</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR38" publication-type="journal">Ahmed K, Hashim S, Khankhara M, Said I, Shandakumar AT, Zaman S, et al. What drives general practitioners in the UK to improve the quality of care? A systematic literature review. BMJ Open Qual. 2021;10(1): e001127.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33574115</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR39"><label>39.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Fr&#x000f8;lich A, Ghith N, Schi&#x000f8;tz M, Jacobsen R, Stockmarr A. Multimorbidity, healthcare utilization and socioeconomic status: a register-based study in Denmark. PLoS One. 2019;14(8):e0214183-e.</mixed-citation></ref></ref-list></back></article>