# Extrahepatic disease clusters and mortality in people with steatotic liver diseases: a prospective analysis of 64,749 females and 113,587 males in the UK Biobank.

<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//NLM//DTD JATS (Z39.96) Journal Archiving and Interchange DTD with MathML3 v1.3 20210610//EN" "JATS-archivearticle1-3-mathml3.dtd"> 
<article xmlns:ali="http://www.niso.org/schemas/ali/1.0/" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" article-type="research-article" dtd-version="1.3"><?properties open_access?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierValue -//Springer-Verlag//DTD A++ V2.4//EN?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierType public?><?SourceDTD.DTDName A++V2.4.dtd?><?SourceDTD.Version 2.4?><?ConverterInfo.XSLTName springer2nlmx2.xsl?><?ConverterInfo.Version 1?><processing-meta base-tagset="archiving" mathml-version="3.0" table-model="xhtml" tagset-family="jats"><restricted-by>pmc</restricted-by></processing-meta><front><journal-meta><journal-id journal-id-type="nlm-ta">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-id journal-id-type="iso-abbrev">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-title-group><journal-title>BMC Medicine</journal-title></journal-title-group><issn pub-type="epub">1741-7015</issn><publisher><publisher-name>BioMed Central</publisher-name><publisher-loc>London</publisher-loc></publisher></journal-meta>
<article-meta><article-id pub-id-type="pmcid">12315339</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="pmid">40745309</article-id>
<article-id pub-id-type="publisher-id">4288</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12916-025-04288-4</article-id><article-categories><subj-group subj-group-type="heading"><subject>Research</subject></subj-group></article-categories><title-group><article-title>Extrahepatic disease clusters and mortality in people with steatotic liver diseases: a prospective analysis of 64,749 females and 113,587 males in the UK Biobank</article-title></title-group><contrib-group><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><contrib-id contrib-id-type="orcid">http://orcid.org/0000-0001-9323-9421</contrib-id><name><surname>Feng</surname><given-names>Qi</given-names></name><address><email>qfeng@georgeinstitute.org.uk</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Izzi-Engbeaya</surname><given-names>Chioma N.</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Beaney</surname><given-names>Thomas</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Smith</surname><given-names>Alexander G.</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff4">4</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Manousou</surname><given-names>Pinelopi</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff5">5</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff6">6</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Woodward</surname><given-names>Mark</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff7">7</xref></contrib><aff id="Aff1"><label>1</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/041kmwe10</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.7445.2</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 2113 8111</institution-id><institution>The George Institute for Global Health (UK), School of Public Health, </institution><institution>Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College London, </institution></institution-wrap>58 Wood Lane, London, W12 7RZ UK </aff><aff id="Aff2"><label>2</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/041kmwe10</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.7445.2</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 2113 8111</institution-id><institution>Section of Investigative Medicine and Endocrinology, Department of Metabolism, Digestion and Reproduction, Faculty of Medicine, </institution><institution>Imperial College London, </institution></institution-wrap>London, UK </aff><aff id="Aff3"><label>3</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/01aysdw42</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.426467.5</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 2108 8951</institution-id><institution>Department of Endocrinology, </institution><institution>St Mary&#x02019;s Hospital, Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, </institution></institution-wrap>London, UK </aff><aff id="Aff4"><label>4</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/041kmwe10</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.7445.2</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 2113 8111</institution-id><institution>School of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, </institution><institution>Imperial College London, </institution></institution-wrap>London, UK </aff><aff id="Aff5"><label>5</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/041kmwe10</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.7445.2</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 2113 8111</institution-id><institution>Division of Digestive Diseases, Department of Metabolism, Digestion and Reproduction, Faculty of Medicine, </institution><institution>Imperial College London, </institution></institution-wrap>London, UK </aff><aff id="Aff6"><label>6</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/01aysdw42</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.426467.5</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 2108 8951</institution-id><institution>Department of Hepatology, </institution><institution>St Mary&#x02019;s Hospital, Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, </institution></institution-wrap>London, UK </aff><aff id="Aff7"><label>7</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/023331s46</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.415508.d</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 1964 6010</institution-id><institution>The George Institute for Global Health (Australia), University of South New Wales, </institution></institution-wrap>Sydney, Australia </aff></contrib-group><pub-date pub-type="epub"><day>31</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="pmc-release"><day>31</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="collection"><year>2025</year></pub-date><volume>23</volume><elocation-id>450</elocation-id><history><date date-type="received"><day>1</day><month>5</month><year>2025</year></date><date date-type="accepted"><day>21</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></date></history><permissions><copyright-statement>&#x000a9; The Author(s) 2025</copyright-statement><copyright-year>2025</copyright-year><license><ali:license_ref specific-use="textmining" content-type="ccbylicense">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/</ali:license_ref><license-p><bold>Open Access</bold> This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article's Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article's Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/">http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/</ext-link>.</license-p></license></permissions><abstract id="Abs1"><sec><title>Background</title><p id="Par10">Steatotic liver disease (SLD) is the most prevalent chronic liver disease worldwide and linked to various liver and extrahepatic diseases. However, the clustering of extrahepatic conditions and their impact on mortality in individuals with SLD remain poorly understood.</p></sec><sec><title>Methods</title><p id="Par11">We used UK Biobank data to identify sex-specific disease clusters among individuals with SLD and multimorbidity (having&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;2 extrahepatic diseases) using latent class analysis. Multivariable Cox models were used to assess associations between multimorbidity, disease clusters and all-cause mortality and mortality from cardiovascular diseases (CVD), extrahepatic cancers, liver-related diseases and hepatocellular carcinoma.</p></sec><sec><title>Results</title><p id="Par12">Among 178,336 (36.3% female) individuals with SLD, during a median follow-up of 13.8 years, multimorbidity increased mortality by 100% (hazard ratio (95% confidence interval): 2.00 (1.93, 2.08)) and 80% (1.80 (1.71, 1.90)) in males and females, respectively, and increased the risk of death from CVD, extrahepatic cancers and liver-related diseases. Among 36,002 (43.9% female) of the 178,336 with multimorbidity, we identified five disease clusters in both sexes: related to respiratory, mental health, cancer/osteoarthritis and cardiovascular diseases. Males had separate heart and stroke clusters, whereas females had a combined heart/stroke cluster and a unique thyroid cluster. CVD was the leading cause of death in cardiovascular clusters, whereas extrahepatic cancers were the most common cause of death in other clusters. Among all disease clusters, cardiovascular clusters exhibited the highest all-cause mortality risk: 2.90 (2.64, 3.20) for the heart/stroke cluster in females and 2.63 (2.48, 2.78) for the heart cluster and 2.36 (2.16, 2.58) for the stroke cluster in males. All clusters exhibited increased mortality of CVD and extrahepatic cancers.</p></sec><sec><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par13">Multimorbidity doubled the death rate in people with SLD. Common multimorbidity clusters of mental health, respiratory, cancer and cardiovascular diseases were found and were associated with varying mortality, with cardiovascular-related clusters showing the highest risk. Females exhibited a unique thyroid disease cluster. These findings highlight the need for tailored prevention and management strategies in SLD populations.
</p></sec><sec><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12916-025-04288-4.</p></sec></abstract><kwd-group xml:lang="en"><title>Keywords</title><kwd>Steatotic liver disease</kwd><kwd>Multimorbidity</kwd><kwd>Disease cluster</kwd><kwd>Mortality</kwd><kwd>Latent class analysis</kwd><kwd>Sex difference</kwd></kwd-group><custom-meta-group><custom-meta><meta-name>issue-copyright-statement</meta-name><meta-value>&#x000a9; BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2025</meta-value></custom-meta></custom-meta-group></article-meta></front><body><sec id="Sec1"><title>Background</title><p id="Par35">Steatotic liver disease (SLD) is the most prevalent chronic liver disease, affecting every one in three adults worldwide [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>]. SLD can progress to liver fibrosis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and end-stage liver disease [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>]. SLD is closely linked to excess alcohol consumption and/or cardiometabolic risk factors, such as obesity, hypertension, diabetes and dyslipidaemia [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>]. Beyond liver-related conditions, it is also associated with increased risk of cardiovascular diseases (CVD), extrahepatic cancers and chronic kidney disease [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>].</p><p id="Par36">Multimorbidity (MM), the coexistence of two or more long-term conditions (LTCs), is increasingly recognised as a major public health challenge, particularly in ageing populations [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>]. People with SLD frequently exhibit multimorbidity, largely driven by cardiometabolic and cancer comorbidities. However, beyond these well-established associations, the broader multimorbidity patterns in individuals with SLD remain poorly characterised. Understanding these different phenotypes in the form of disease clusters may help to improve risk stratification, understand disease mechanisms and optimise clinical management and healthcare services, thus improving individual long-term outcomes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>].
</p><p id="Par37">Previous studies have used various clustering techniques to derive disease clusters in general populations, often identifying cardiometabolic, respiratory and mental health clusters [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>]. However, few studies have specifically examined extrahepatic multimorbidity clusters in individuals with SLD. Given the high burden of liver-related and extrahepatic complications in this population, it is essential to determine whether distinct disease clusters exist and how they may impact mortality outcomes. Additionally, sex differences in disease clustering remain under-explored [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>].</p><p id="Par38">This study aimed to identify multimorbidity clusters among individuals with SLD in the UK Biobank and to examine the associations between these clusters and all-cause and cause-specific mortality, considering sex differences in disease clustering and outcomes.</p></sec><sec id="Sec2"><title>Methods</title><sec id="Sec3"><title>Data and participants</title><p id="Par39">We used data from the UK Biobank, a prospective cohort of half million individuals aged 40&#x02013;70 years old recruited between 2006 and 2010. Baseline assessment collected data on socioeconomic status, lifestyle factors, health status, occupational and environmental exposures and anthropometric measures. Biological samples of blood, urine and saliva were collected. All participants were followed up via linkage to national death registries and hospital records.</p><p id="Par40">We included people with SLD, defined using a fatty liver index (FLI)&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;60 as an indicator of liver steatosis. FLI is a biomarker-based score for hepatic steatosis levels, calculated with body mass index (BMI), waist circumference, triglycerides (TG) and gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>]. The cutoff value of 60% has been validated and used previously to define liver steatosis [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>]. SLD subtypes were classified into metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD), metabolic dysfunction and alcohol related liver disease (MetALD) and alcohol related liver disease (ALD), based on alcohol consumption and the presence of cardiometabolic risk factors (CMRF) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>]. CMRFs included obesity, hypertension, diabetes, high TG and low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, and we measured these CMRFs as defined in Rinella et al. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>]. We excluded people who withdrew from the cohort, who were pregnant at baseline and who had missing data in calculating FLI (Fig. <xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>).<fig id="Fig1"><label>Fig. 1</label><caption><p>Flowchart of participant selection. SLD, steatotic liver disease; MM, multimorbidity. Note: some people were excluded for more than a single reason</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4288_Fig1_HTML" id="MO1"/></fig></p></sec><sec id="Sec4"><title>Multimorbidity and disease clusters</title><p id="Par41">We defined multimorbidity (MM) as presence of at least two of 47 LTCs from a prespecified list. This list of disease was based on a three-round Delphi study of healthcare professionals and public members [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>]. The criteria for including these LTCs included their impacts on mortality, quality of life, frailty, physical disability, mental health and treatment burden. Among the conditions identified in this Delphi study, we combined solid organ cancers, metastatic cancers, melanoma and treated cancer requiring surveillance, into one broad solid organ cancer category, and removed post-acute COVID-19, chronic Lyme disease and two liver conditions (HCC and chronic liver disease). Since SLD is our index disease, we excluded SLD and its associated CMRFs from the list, namely obesity and diabetes. After these modifications, this study considered 47 LTCs for multimorbidity (Additional file 1: supplementary methods). These LTCs covered extrahepatic cancers, cardiovascular, metabolic, endocrinological, respiratory, digestive, renal, mental/behavioural and congenital conditions. Diagnosis of these conditions in each individual was confirmed in self-report medical conditions at baseline assessment and hospital records on and before the date of attending the baseline assessment. The codelists for these LTCs are presented in Additional file 1: supplementary methods.</p><p id="Par42">We used latent class analysis (LCA) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>] to determine disease clusters in a binary disease presence matrix in individuals with multimorbidity (&#x02265;&#x02009;2 LTCs), separately in females and males. LCA allocates each individual to a single non-overlapping cluster and allows each condition to contribute to various clusters by varying probabilities. The algorithm produced posterior probabilities of cluster membership for each individual, and each individual was assigned to the cluster for which they have the highest posterior probability. In this way, each individual was assigned to one and only one cluster; thus, the clusters were mutually exclusive. We compared the performance statistics for multiple LCA models of between 2 and 12 clusters, using the Bayesian information criterion (BIC), sample size-adjusted BIC (aBIC) and Akaike information criterion (AIC). The optimal number of clusters was decided based on three criteria: (1) a lower aBIC value (indicating better model fitting); (2) the minimal size of any cluster should be&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;5% of the total sample for LCA, to avoid overly small clusters, which may indicate overfitting; and (3) clinical interpretability of the resulting clusters, via consultation with clinician coauthors (PM, CI and TB). These criteria have been used in previous publications [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>].</p><p id="Par43">The derived clusters were characterised by the 3 LTCs with the highest probabilities&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;5% of contributing to that cluster, excluding conditions for which their prevalence in the cluster was equal to or less than their prevalence in the total sample [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>]. Additionally, we calculated observed/expected prevalence ratio (O/E ratio) and exclusivity for each characteristic LTC, as in Roso-Llorach et al.&#x02019;s study [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>]. O/E ratio was calculated by dividing the prevalence of a given LTC within a cluster by its prevalence in the overall sample for LCA. LTC exclusivity was defined as the fraction of participants with the LTC in the cluster over the total number of participants with the LTC. LTCs with exclusivity&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;20% or O/E ratio&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;2 were considered strong characteristic diseases for the clusters. This approach ensured that only relatively common and cluster-distinctive diseases were used to define the cluster profiles.</p></sec><sec id="Sec5"><title>Outcome and covariates</title><p id="Par44">The outcomes were all-cause mortality and mortality of HCC, liver-related diseases, CVD and extrahepatic cancers. These cause-specific mortality outcomes were chosen because they were the most common and clinically relevant causes of death in people with SLD [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR21">21</xref>]. Cause of death was confirmed in death registry records. Participants were censored at the date of death or the last day of follow-up (30 November 2022), whichever occurred earlier. We used the following ICD10 codes for specific causes of death: HCC (C22.0), liver-related diseases (K70&#x02013;K77, C22), CVD (I00&#x02013;I99) and extrahepatic cancer (C00&#x02013;C99 excluding C22). Liver-related diseases included chronic liver disease (K70-K77) and liver cancer (C22). The codelists have been used in previous studies [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR22">22</xref>] and reviewed by clinician coauthors (PM and CI) to ensure accuracy.</p><p id="Par45">A participant&#x02019;s region was determined by the location of the assessment centre they attended. Ethnicity was classified into White, Asian, Black and mixed/others. The Townsend deprivation index is a postcode-derived measure for socioeconomic status. Educational attainment was categorised as below secondary, lower secondary, upper secondary, vocational training and higher education. Lifestyle factors included self-reported current smoking (current, previous and never smoker), alcohol consumption and physical activity level. Alcohol consumption was assessed via self-reported weekly or monthly intake of various alcoholic drinks; the consumption was summed up to derive average daily alcohol consumption (g/day) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>]. Physical activity level was measured with the International Physical Activity Questionnaire; individuals were categorised into low, moderate and high levels, based on the frequency, duration and intensity of their physical activities. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure were measured twice and the averages of the two readings were used in analyses. Blood biochemistry markers were measured at a central laboratory, including TG, HDL cholesterol, HbA1c, ALT, AST and GGT. For all the categorical covariates, answers of &#x0201c;unknown&#x0201d;, &#x0201c;do not know&#x0201d; and &#x0201c;prefer not to say&#x0201d; were combined into one &#x0201c;unknown&#x0201d; category.</p></sec><sec id="Sec6"><title>Statistical analysis</title><p id="Par46">The baseline characteristics of males and females with SLD were summarised and compared between those with multimorbidity and those without, as well as across the derived disease clusters.</p><p id="Par47">Cox proportional hazards models were fitted to assess the associations between multimorbidity, disease clusters and mortality outcomes, expressed as hazard ratio (HR) and 95% confidence interval (CI), using individuals without multimorbidity as the reference group. Date of baseline assessment was used as the time origin. The models were stratified by region (England, Scotland, Wales) and age groups (&#x0003c;&#x02009;50, 50&#x02013;60,&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;60) and adjusted for ethnicity (White, Asian, Black, others), Townsend deprivation index (in equal fifths), education (below secondary, lower secondary, upper secondary, vocational training, higher education), smoking (current, previous, never), physical activity (low, intermediate, high) and alcohol consumption (continuous, g/day). The proportional hazards assumption was examined by scaled Schoenfeld residuals, and no evidence was observed for its violation. For sensitivity analyses, we (1) further adjusted for the five CMRFs and (2) removed the first 2 years of follow-up to correct for reverse causation.</p></sec><sec id="Sec7"><title>Cluster validation</title><p id="Par48">We assessed the validity of the derived clusters, using three commonly recommended approaches: associations with clinical outcomes, clinical plausibility and stability across subsamples, as summarised by Dhafari et al. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>]. These aspects were incorporated into the study design and analyses. First, we evaluated clinical relevance by examining associations between the identified clusters and mortality outcomes. Second, clinical plausibility was assessed through consultations with clinician coauthors (PM, CI, TB), who reviewed the disease profiles of each cluster.</p><p id="Par49">Third, to examine the stability of clustering process across subsamples, we conducted sensitivity analyses by randomly selecting 80% and 50% of the full sample and repeating LCA. Across the three samples (i.e. full, 80% and 50% samples), we compared the results with respect to the aBIC plot, the optimal number of clusters, the characteristic diseases for each derived cluster and their prevalences, the distribution of posterior probability and the proportion of individuals assigned to the same cluster.</p><p id="Par50">Since individuals were assigned to clusters based on their highest posterior probability, individuals with higher posterior probability were assigned to a cluster with more confidence than those with lower probability. To examine the impact of potential uncertainty in cluster assignment, we conducted a sensitivity analysis excluding the participants with a maximum posterior probability below 70% (approximately the lowest quartile) and estimated the associations between the disease clusters and mortality outcomes in the remaining participants, to examine the robustness of cluster assignment.</p><p id="Par51">All analyses were done in R.</p></sec><sec id="Sec8"><title>Ethics approval and consent to participate</title><p id="Par52">UK Biobank received ethical approval from the National Information Governance Board for Health and Social Care and the National Health Service North West Multi-centre Centre for Research Ethics Committee (Ref: 21/NW/0157). All participants provided informed consent at recruitment to the study for their data to be used for health-related research that was in the public interest.</p><p id="Par53">UK Biobank has approval from the North West Multi-centre Research Ethics Committee as a Research Tissue Bank approval. This approval means that researchers do not require separate ethical clearance.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec9"><title>Results</title><p id="Par54">We included 178,336 individuals with SLD in analysis (36.3% females, mean age 57.3 years; 73.5% MASLD, 19.0% MetALD, 6.4% ALD) (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>). About one in five (20.2%) of SLD participants had MM, higher in females than in males (24.4% vs. 17.8%). The prevalence of MM was 21.3%, 15.9% and 17.4% in people with MASLD, MetALD and ALD, respectively. Overall, compared to people without MM, people with MM were more likely to be older, living in socioeconomically deprived area, less educated, smokers and drink less. They were also more likely to have diabetes and low HDL cholesterol, but less likely to have hypertension and high TG (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref>).
<table-wrap id="Tab1"><label>Table 1</label><caption><p>Baseline characteristics in participants with steatotic liver disease stratified by sex and multimorbidity status</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left" rowspan="3"/><th align="left" colspan="2">Males</th><th align="left" colspan="2">Females</th><th align="left" rowspan="2">Overall</th></tr><tr><th align="left">MM</th><th align="left">No MM</th><th align="left">MM</th><th align="left">No MM</th></tr><tr><th align="left"><italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;20,183</th><th align="left"><italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;93,404</th><th align="left"><italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;15,819</th><th align="left"><italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;48,930</th><th align="left"><italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;178,336</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left"><bold>Age, years</bold></td><td align="left">59.4 (7.5)</td><td align="left">56.5 (8.0)</td><td align="left">58.6 (7.4)</td><td align="left">57.4 (7.5)</td><td align="left">57.3 (7.8)</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="6"><bold>Townsend deprivation index</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003; 1st fifth (least deprived)</td><td align="left">3188 (15.8%)</td><td align="left">18,637 (20.0%)</td><td align="left">2188 (13.8%)</td><td align="left">8449 (17.3%)</td><td align="left">32,462 (18.2%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;5th fifth (most deprived)</td><td align="left">5728 (28.4%)</td><td align="left">18,804 (20.1%)</td><td align="left">4853 (30.7%)</td><td align="left">11,485 (23.5%)</td><td align="left">40,870 (22.9%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Higher level of education</td><td align="left">4727 (23.4%)</td><td align="left">27,880 (29.8%)</td><td align="left">3157 (20.0%)</td><td align="left">11,582 (23.7%)</td><td align="left">47,346 (26.5%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;White ethnicity</td><td align="left">19,263 (95.4%)</td><td align="left">88,343 (94.6%)</td><td align="left">14,853 (93.9%)</td><td align="left">45,724 (93.4%)</td><td align="left">168,183 (94.3%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Never smoked</td><td align="left">7254 (35.9%)</td><td align="left">42,439 (45.4%)</td><td align="left">7983 (50.5%)</td><td align="left">27,847 (56.9%)</td><td align="left">85,523 (48%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Alcohol drinking, g/day*</td><td align="left">15.1 (0.0, 33.3)</td><td align="left">19.5 (5.9, 36.7)</td><td align="left">0.8 (0.0, 10.3)</td><td align="left">3.4 (0.0, 13.1)</td><td align="left">11.9 (0.0, 28.6)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;High level of physical activity</td><td align="left">5142 (25.5%)</td><td align="left">29,056 (31.1%)</td><td align="left">3042 (19.2%)</td><td align="left">10,595 (21.7%)</td><td align="left">47,835 (26.8%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;BMI, kg/m<sup>2</sup></td><td align="left">31.1 (4.4)</td><td align="left">30.3 (3.7)</td><td align="left">33.9 (5.3)</td><td align="left">33.2 (4.7)</td><td align="left">31.5 (4.5)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;FIB4 score*</td><td align="left">1.4 (1.1, 1.8)</td><td align="left">1.2 (1.0, 1.6)</td><td align="left">1.1 (0.9, 1.4)</td><td align="left">1.1 (0.9, 1.4)</td><td align="left">1.2 (0.9, 1.5)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Waist circumference, cm</td><td align="left">106.4 (10.8)</td><td align="left">103.4 (9.5)</td><td align="left">101.7 (10.8)</td><td align="left">99.6 (9.7)</td><td align="left">102.6 (10.0)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Systolic blood pressure, mmHg</td><td align="left">141.3 (17.6)</td><td align="left">143.9 (17.0)</td><td align="left">139.6 (18.0)</td><td align="left">141.5 (18.3)</td><td align="left">142.6 (17.6)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Diastolic blood pressure, mmHg</td><td align="left">83.9 (10.3)</td><td align="left">86.7 (9.7)</td><td align="left">83.6 (9.9)</td><td align="left">85.2 (9.5)</td><td align="left">85.7 (9.8)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;ALT, log<sub>10</sub> U/L</td><td align="left">1.4 (0.2)</td><td align="left">1.5 (0.2)</td><td align="left">1.4 (0.2)</td><td align="left">1.4 (0.2)</td><td align="left">1.4 (0.2)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;AST, log<sub>10</sub> U/L</td><td align="left">1.4 (0.2)</td><td align="left">1.4 (0.1)</td><td align="left">1.4 (0.2)</td><td align="left">1.4 (0.1)</td><td align="left">1.4 (0.2)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;GGT, log<sub>10</sub> U/L</td><td align="left">1.7 (0.3)</td><td align="left">1.7 (0.3)</td><td align="left">1.6 (0.3)</td><td align="left">1.6 (0.3)</td><td align="left">1.6 (0.3)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Triglycerides, mmol/L</td><td align="left">2.1 [1.4]</td><td align="left">2.2 [1.4]</td><td align="left">2.0 [1.2]</td><td align="left">2.0 [1.2]</td><td align="left">2.1 [1.3]</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;HDL cholesterol, mmol/L</td><td align="left">1.1 (0.4)</td><td align="left">1.1 (0.4)</td><td align="left">1.3 (0.4)</td><td align="left">1.3 (0.4)</td><td align="left">1.2 (0.4)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;HbA1c, mmol/mol</td><td align="left">38.5 (11.6)</td><td align="left">36.2 (9.3)</td><td align="left">38.1 (10.6)</td><td align="left">36.8 (9.3)</td><td align="left">36.8 (9.8)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Platelet, 10<sup>9</sup> cells/L</td><td align="left">237.7 (60.9)</td><td align="left">238.7 (54.9)</td><td align="left">277.1 (66.3)</td><td align="left">274.7 (61.4)</td><td align="left">251.8 (61.1)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Hypertension</td><td align="left">15,450 (76.5%)</td><td align="left">77,040 (82.5%)</td><td align="left">13,038 (82.4%)</td><td align="left">39,889 (81.5%)</td><td align="left">145,417 (81.5%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Obesity</td><td align="left">19,788 (98.0%)</td><td align="left">91,381 (97.8%)</td><td align="left">15,788 (99.8%)</td><td align="left">48,837 (99.8%)</td><td align="left">175,794 (98.6%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Diabetes</td><td align="left">7795 (38.6%)</td><td align="left">23,050 (24.7%)</td><td align="left">6182 (39.1%)</td><td align="left">14,735 (30.1%)</td><td align="left">51,762 (29.0%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;High triglycerides</td><td align="left">13,759 (68.2%)</td><td align="left">67,561 (72.3%)</td><td align="left">12,287 (77.7%)</td><td align="left">34,685 (70.9%)</td><td align="left">128,292 (71.9%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Low HDL cholesterol</td><td align="left">7266 (36.0%)</td><td align="left">27,621 (29.6%)</td><td align="left">10,506 (66.4%)</td><td align="left">27,784 (56.8%)</td><td align="left">73,177 (41.0%)</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>Values shown are <italic>n</italic> (%) except where units of measurement are stated where mean (standard deviation) is shown, except * showing median (interquartile interval)</p><p><italic>MM</italic> Multimorbidity, <italic>BMI</italic> Body mass index, <italic>FIB4</italic> Fibrosis-4 score, <italic>ALT</italic> Alanine aminotransferase, <italic>AST</italic> Aspartate aminotransferase, <italic>GGT</italic> Gamma-glutamyl transferase, <italic>HDL</italic> High-density lipoprotein, <italic>HbA1c</italic>&#x000a0;Glycated haemoglobin</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p><sec id="Sec10"><title>Disease clusters and their characteristics</title><p id="Par55">Latent class analysis derived five distinct disease clusters for males and females, respectively, with some overlapping and some sex-specific patterns (Additional file 1: Fig. S1(A), Table S1). For males, although the clustering evaluation metrics indicated that an 8-cluster solution was statistically optimal, we opted against this model due to concerns on clinical redundancy and potential overfitting. Upon review, the 8-cluster solution included two highly similar respiratory clusters (one characterised by asthma and COPD, the other by asthma and other chronic respiratory disease), as well as two overlapping cardiovascular clusters (one with ischaemic heart disease, heart failure and arrhythmia, and another with ischaemic heart disease, heart failure and heart valve disease). A similar issue of cluster overlap was also observed in the 6-cluster solution. Therefore, to balance clinical interpretability and parsimony, we selected the 5-cluster model for subsequent analyses.</p><p id="Par56">Table <xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref> summarises the characteristic diseases within each cluster. In both sexes, a respiratory cluster (characterised by asthma, COPD and other chronic respiratory diseases), a mental health cluster (dominated by depression and anxiety, with substance use disorder additionally present in males) and a cancer/osteoarthritis cluster (including solid organ cancers, chronic respiratory diseases and osteoarthritis) were observed. Among males, a heart cluster (characterised by ischaemic heart disease, arrhythmia and heart failure) and a stroke cluster (characterised by stroke and paralysis) were identified. In females, these two clusters merged into a single heart/stroke cluster, which included ischaemic heart disease, arrhythmia and stroke. Additionally, females had a unique thyroid cluster, consisting of thyroid disorders and connective tissue diseases. All these characteristic diseases showed high exclusivity (&#x0003e;&#x02009;20%) and most showed high E/O ratio (&#x0003e;&#x02009;2.0). Additional file 1: Table S2 shows more details on the LTCs in each cluster.
<table-wrap id="Tab2"><label>Table 2</label><caption><p>Latent class analysis derived disease clusters in males and females with steatotic liver disease</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left"/><th align="left">Males</th><th align="left">Females</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">Cluster name</td><td align="left">Respiratory cluster (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;5587, 27.7%)</td><td align="left">Respiratory cluster (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;4116, 26.0%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Characteristic diseases</td><td align="left"><p>o Asthma (100%)</p><p>o COPD (16%)</p><p>o Other chronic respiratory diseases (43%)</p></td><td align="left"><p>o Asthma (100%)</p><p>o COPD (17%)</p><p>o Other chronic respiratory diseases (40%)</p></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Cluster name</td><td align="left">Mental health cluster (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;2814, 13.9%)</td><td align="left">Mental health cluster (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;3469, 21.9%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Characteristic diseases</td><td align="left"><p>o Depression (80%)</p><p>o Anxiety (28%)</p><p>o Substance use disorder (19%)</p></td><td align="left"><p>o Depression (100%)</p><p>o Anxiety (14%)</p></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Cluster name</td><td align="left">Cancer/osteoarthritis cluster (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;6060, 30.0%)</td><td align="left">Cancer/osteoarthritis cluster (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;3396, 21.5%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Characteristic diseases</td><td align="left"><p>o Solid organ cancers (29%)</p><p>o Other chronic respiratory diseases (41%)</p><p>o Osteoarthritis (24%)</p></td><td align="left"><p>o Solid organ cancers (31%)</p><p>o Other chronic respiratory disease (35%)</p><p>o Osteoarthritis (24%)</p></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Cluster name</td><td align="left">Stroke cluster (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;1632, 8.1%)</td><td align="left">Heart/stroke cluster (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;1745, 11.0%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Characteristic diseases</td><td align="left"><p>o Stroke (98%)</p><p>o Paralysis (15%)</p></td><td align="left"><p>o Ischaemic heart disease (63%)</p><p>o Arrythmia (34%)</p><p>o Stroke (33%)</p></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Cluster name</td><td align="left">Heart cluster (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;4090, 20.3%)</td><td align="left">Thyroid cluster (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;3093, 19.6%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Characteristic diseases</td><td align="left"><p>o Ischaemic heart disease (83%)</p><p>o Arrythmia (53%)</p><p>o Heart failure (25%)</p></td><td align="left"><p>o Thyroid disorder (100%)</p><p>o Connective tissue diseases (8%)</p></td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>Showing the characteristic diseases and their prevalences in that cluster</p><p><italic>COPD</italic> Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p><p id="Par57">In males, the most common disease cluster to which individuals were assigned was the cancer/osteoarthritis cluster (30.0%), followed by respiratory cluster (27.7%), heart cluster (20.3%) and mental cluster (13.9%) while stroke cluster (8.1%) was the least common. In females, the most common cluster was respiratory cluster (26.0%), followed by mental cluster (21.9%), cancer/osteoarthritis cluster (21.5%) and thyroid cluster (19.6%), and the least common was heart/stroke cluster (11.0%) (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref>). Across SLD subtypes, mental health cluster was more prevalent in ALD in both males and females, while heart/stroke and thyroid clusters were more prevalent in MASLD in females (Additional file 1: Fig. S2).</p><p id="Par58">Additional file 1: Tables S3 and S4 present the baseline characteristics of males and females assigned to each disease cluster. In both males and females, clustering was associated with age, socioeconomic status, physical activity and CMRFs. Individuals in the respiratory and mental health clusters were younger, while those in the heart and/or stroke cluster were the oldest. Both sex-specific mental health and stroke clusters were more socioeconomically deprived, and the stroke clusters had lower level of physical activity. Both the stroke and heart clusters had higher prevalence of diabetes and low HDL than overall males. The heart cluster and stroke cluster also demonstrated differences in socioeconomic deprivation, physical activity level, diabetes, hypertension and low HDL cholesterol.</p><p id="Par59">In females, the mental health and heart/stroke clusters were more likely to live in socioeconomically deprived area, with the heart/stroke cluster also less likely to have higher education, be never smokers or engage in high physical activity level. While diabetes was less common in the mental health cluster, it was more prevalent in the heart/stroke cluster, which also had higher TG and lower HDL levels. Mental health cluster was also more likely to be White ethnicity in females.</p></sec><sec id="Sec11"><title>Disease clusters and all-cause mortality</title><p id="Par60">During a median follow-up of 13.8 years, 14,595 (12.8%) and 6171 (9.5%) deaths were captured in males and females, respectively. Compared to males with SLD but without MM, males with MM had an excess mortality rate of 12.3/1000 person-years (20.0 vs. 7.7), yielding an HR estimate of 2.00 (95%CI 1.93, 2.08). Compared to females without MM, females with MM had an excess mortality rate of 6.0/1000 person-years (11.7 vs. 5.7), responding to an HR estimate of 1.80 (95%CI 1.71, 1.90).</p><p id="Par61">People in all disease clusters showed higher all-cause mortality than people without MM. In males, heart and stroke clusters were associated with the highest mortality, with HR of 2.63 (2.48, 2.78) and 2.36 (2.16, 2.58); respiratory, mental health and cancer/osteoarthritis clusters showed HR of 1.62 (1.51, 1.73), 1.84 (1.69, 2.00) and 1.85 (1.75, 1.96), respectively. In females, heart/stroke cluster was associated with the highest mortality, with HR of 2.90 (2.64, 3.20). Respiratory, mental health, cancer/osteoarthritis and thyroid clusters showed HR of 1.73 (1.58, 1.89), 1.57 (1.42, 1.74), 1.85 (1.69, 2.02) and 1.42 (1.28, 1.58), respectively (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>, Additional file 1: Table S5). Sensitivity analyses by additional adjustment for CMRFs and removing the first 2 years of follow-up generated similar results (Additional file 1: Table S6).<fig id="Fig2"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;2</label><caption><p>Associations between multimorbidity, disease clusters and all-cause mortality in males and females with steatotic liver disease. Model was stratified by region and age groups, adjusted for ethnic, education, deprivation, physical activity, alcohol intake and smoking. MM, multimorbidity; HR (95%CI), hazard ratio (95% confidence interval)</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4288_Fig2_HTML" id="MO2"/></fig></p></sec><sec id="Sec12"><title>Disease clusters and cause-specific mortality</title><p id="Par62">Examining causes of death, 65% of all deaths were due to extrahepatic cancers, CVD and liver-related diseases, and the remaining 35% were due to other causes. More specifically, in males, 31.9% and 31.8% deaths were attributed to extrahepatic cancers and CVD, while only 1.1% to HCC and 4.4% to liver-related diseases. Similarly in females, 39.9%, 21.9%, 0.3% and 3.3% deaths were attributed to extrahepatic cancers, CVD, HCC and liver-related diseases, respectively. Extrahepatic cancer and CVD were the major causes of death across all clusters, contributing 58.1% to 67.3% of all deaths in males and 59.1% to 66.7% in females. CVD was the biggest cause of death in the stroke and heart clusters in males and in the stroke/heart cluster in females, while extrahepatic cancers remained the biggest cause of death for all other clusters (Additional file 1: Fig. S3).</p><p id="Par63">Compared to people without MM, having MM was associated with higher mortality from extrahepatic cancers by 45% (1.45 (1.37, 1.54)), CVD by 173% (2.73 (2.56, 2.92)), HCC by 67% (1.67 (1.20, 2.32)) and liver-related diseases by 84% (1.84 (1.55, 2.18)) in males and extrahepatic cancers by 40% (1.40 (1.30, 1.52)), CVD by 130% (2.30 (2.04, 2.58)) and liver-related death by 46% (1.41 (1.06, 1.86)) in females. All five clusters were associated with increased mortality of extrahepatic cancers, with the highest risk in cancer clusters in males (1.77 (1.62, 1.92)) and females (1.74 (1.53, 1.98)). All five clusters were associated with mortality from CVD, with the highest risk in stroke and heart clusters in males (3.34 (2.86, 3.90) and 5.28 (4.83, 5.77)) and stroke/heart cluster (5.66 (4.75, 6.75)) in females. The disease clusters also showed general trend of positive associations with mortality of HCC and liver-related diseases, although non-significantly, likely due to the small number of events in these clusters (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab3" ref-type="table">3</xref>).
<table-wrap id="Tab3"><label>Table 3</label><caption><p>Associations between the disease clusters and mortality of cardiovascular diseases and extrahepatic cancers, hepatocellular carcinoma and liver-related diseases in males and females with SLD</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left" rowspan="2">Clusters</th><th align="left" colspan="2">Extrahepatic cancers</th><th align="left" colspan="2">Cardiovascular disease</th><th align="left" colspan="2">HCC</th><th align="left" colspan="2">Liver-related diseases</th></tr><tr><th align="left">Events/total</th><th align="left">HR (95%CI)</th><th align="left">Events/total</th><th align="left">HR (95%CI)</th><th align="left">Events/total</th><th align="left">HR (95%CI)</th><th align="left">Events/total</th><th align="left">HR (95%CI)</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Males</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02002;No MM</td><td align="left">4297/93,404</td><td align="left">Reference</td><td align="left">2241/93,404</td><td align="left">Reference</td><td align="left">119/93,404</td><td align="left">Reference</td><td align="left">439/93,404</td><td align="left">Reference</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02002;MM</td><td align="left">1595/20,183</td><td align="left">1.45 (1.37, 1.54)</td><td align="left">1590/20,183</td><td align="left">2.73 (2.56, 2.92)</td><td align="left">56/20,183</td><td align="left">1.67 (1.20, 2.32)</td><td align="left">208/20,183</td><td align="left">1.84 (1.55, 2.18)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02002;&#x02002;Respiratory</td><td align="left">331/5587</td><td align="left">1.24 (1.11, 1.39)</td><td align="left">254/5587</td><td align="left">1.80 (1.58, 2.05)</td><td align="left">11/5587</td><td align="left">1.48 (0.80, 2.76)</td><td align="left">45/5587</td><td align="left">1.65 (1.22, 2.25)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02002;&#x02002;Mental health</td><td align="left">177/2814</td><td align="left">1.30 (1.12, 1.51)</td><td align="left">159/2814</td><td align="left">2.14 (1.82, 2.52)</td><td align="left">8/2814</td><td align="left">1.85 (0.89, 3.83)</td><td align="left">39/2814</td><td align="left">2.24 (1.60, 3.14)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02002;&#x02002;Cancer/osteoarthritis</td><td align="left">618/6060</td><td align="left">1.77 (1.62, 1.92)</td><td align="left">332/6060</td><td align="left">1.83 (1.63, 2.06)</td><td align="left">14/6060</td><td align="left">1.30 (0.74, 2.27)</td><td align="left">59/6060</td><td align="left">1.69 (1.28, 2.22)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02002;&#x02002;Stroke</td><td align="left">163/1632</td><td align="left">1.65 (1.41, 1.94)</td><td align="left">175/1632</td><td align="left">3.34 (2.86, 3.90)</td><td align="left">4/1632</td><td align="left">1.30 (0.47, 3.56)</td><td align="left">13/1632</td><td align="left">1.32 (0.76, 2.31)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02002;&#x02002;Heart</td><td align="left">306/4090</td><td align="left">1.25 (1.11, 1.41)</td><td align="left">670/4090</td><td align="left">5.28 (4.83, 5.77)</td><td align="left">19/4090</td><td align="left">2.44 (1.49, 4.02)</td><td align="left">52/4090</td><td align="left">2.20 (1.64, 2.96)</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Females</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02002;No MM</td><td align="left">1961/48,930</td><td align="left">Reference</td><td align="left">634/48,930</td><td align="left">Reference</td><td align="left">17/48,930</td><td align="left">Reference</td><td align="left">153/48,930</td><td align="left">Reference</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02002;MM</td><td align="left">966/15,819</td><td align="left">1.40 (1.30, 1.52)</td><td align="left">532/15,819</td><td align="left">2.30 (2.04, 2.58)</td><td align="left">8/15,819</td><td align="left">1.02 (0.43, 2.43)</td><td align="left">77/15,819</td><td align="left">1.41 (1.06, 1.86)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02002;&#x02002;Respiratory</td><td align="left">228/4116</td><td align="left">1.34 (1.17, 1.54)</td><td align="left">113/4116</td><td align="left">1.97 (1.61, 2.41)</td><td align="left">4/4116</td><td align="left">2.19 (0.72, 6.67)</td><td align="left">14/4116</td><td align="left">1.04 (0.60, 1.80)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02002;&#x02002;Mental health</td><td align="left">175/3469</td><td align="left">1.26 (1.07, 1.47)</td><td align="left">76/3469</td><td align="left">1.70 (1.34, 2.16)</td><td align="left">0/3469</td><td align="left">NA</td><td align="left">18/3469</td><td align="left">1.54 (0.94, 2.52)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02002;&#x02002;Cancer/osteoarthritis</td><td align="left">265/3396</td><td align="left">1.74 (1.53, 1.98)</td><td align="left">101/3396</td><td align="left">1.98 (1.60, 2.44)</td><td align="left">1/3396</td><td align="left">0.61 (0.08, 4.63)</td><td align="left">18/3396</td><td align="left">1.50 (0.92, 2.46)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02002;&#x02002;Heart/stroke</td><td align="left">141/1745</td><td align="left">1.65 (1.38, 1.96)</td><td align="left">168/1745</td><td align="left">5.66 (4.75, 6.75)</td><td align="left">1/1745</td><td align="left">0.98 (0.12, 7.66)</td><td align="left">13/1745</td><td align="left">2.01 (1.13, 3.57)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02002;&#x02002;Thyroid</td><td align="left">157/3093</td><td align="left">1.11 (0.95, 1.31)</td><td align="left">74/3093</td><td align="left">1.59 (1.25, 2.02)</td><td align="left">2/3093</td><td align="left">1.26 (0.29, 5.51)</td><td align="left">14/3093</td><td align="left">1.27 (0.73, 2.20)</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>Model was stratified by region and age groups, adjusted for ethnicity, education, Townsend deprivation index, physical activity, alcohol intake and smoking&#x000a0;</p><p><italic>HCC</italic>&#x000a0;Hepatocellular carcinoma, <italic>NA</italic>&#x000a0;Not applicable, <italic>HR (95%CI)</italic>&#x000a0;Hazard ratio (95% confidence interval)</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p><p id="Par64">Stroke cluster males also had a lower mortality rate (26.9 vs. 30.1 per 1000 person-year) than heart cluster (Additional file 1: Table S5), with lower mortality of CVD but higher mortality of cancer compared to the heart cluster (Additional file 1: Fig. S3).</p></sec><sec id="Sec13"><title>Cluster validation</title><p id="Par65">To assess the clustering stability across subsamples, we applied LCA to randomly selected 80% and 50% subsets of the full sample and compared the results with the primary full-sample analysis. We observed that the aBIC plots demonstrated similar trends across all samples, and the optimal number of clusters remains unchanged at 5 when applying all three model selection criteria (Additional file 1: Fig. S1(B, C)). The disease profiles of the derived clusters were highly consistent with those identified in the full-sample analysis (Additional file 1: Table S7). The distributions of posterior probability for each cluster were also similar across the three sample analyses (Additional file 1: Table S8). Comparing the full and 80% sample analyses, 99.0% males and 98.2% females were assigned to the same clusters; compared the full and 50% sample analyses, 96.3% males and 96.2% females remained in the same clusters. These results supported the robustness and reproducibility of the clustering solution.</p><p id="Par66">To evaluate the impact of individuals with low posterior probability on the association estimates, we conducted a sensitivity analysis excluding participants with a maximum posterior probability&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;70% for cluster assignment. This resulted in the exclusion of 5995 (29.7%) males and 3511 (22.2%) females (Additional file 1: Table S9). Additional file 1: Table S10 shows the associations between disease clusters and all-cause and cause-specific mortality outcomes, which were largely consistent with those observed in the primary analysis, further supporting the stability of clustering assignments.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec14"><title>Discussion</title><p id="Par67">In this prospective cohort including 36,002 participants with SLD and extrahepatic multimorbidity, we identified distinct disease clusters that differed by sex and were associated with varying mortality risks. While both sexes shared the respiratory, mental health, cancer/osteoarthritis and cardiovascular clusters, females had a unique thyroid cluster. Extrahepatic cancers emerged as the leading cause of death across most clusters, except for the cardiovascular clusters, where CVD predominated. MM doubled overall mortality, with the cardiovascular clusters exhibiting the highest mortality. MM was also associated with increased mortality from extrahepatic cancers, CVD and liver-related diseases, although the strength of these associations varied across clusters.</p><p id="Par68">While no prior studies have generated disease clusters in SLD population, similar disease clusters have been reported in other populations. However, methodological differences, including variations in disease definitions, population characteristics and data sources, have led to some discrepancies in reported studies [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>]. A systematic review [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>] highlighted the substantial variability in multimorbidity clusters across studies, but noted three common clusters: mental health, cardiometabolic and respiratory, all of which emerged in this study.</p><p id="Par69">Comparisons with previous studies reveal both similarities and differences. Krauth et al. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>] identified respiratory, mental health, cancer and cardiometabolic clusters, which were similar to our findings. Their cancer cluster was characterised with cancer, arthritis and thyroid diseases, corresponding to our cancer/osteoarthritis cluster and thyroid cluster in females. However, they did not examine sex differences. Calvin et al. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>] identified 7 clusters in females and 6 in males, including respiratory and cancer clusters in both sexes, and a thyroid cluster unique to females. Additionally, their cardiometabolic cluster, comprising hypertension, diabetes, coronary heart disease and stroke (in males only), closely resembled our cardiovascular clusters. Unlike their study, we excluded hypertension and diabetes due to their intrinsic association with SLD, but still observed high prevalence of these conditions in the cardiovascular clusters. Both Calvin et al. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>] and Krauth et al. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>] used only baseline self-report data in UK Biobank, potentially missing diagnoses captured in hospital records data.</p><p id="Par70">Findings from broader UK-based studies further support our results, with mental health, cancer/osteoarthritis and stroke clusters repeatedly reported [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR26">26</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR27">27</xref>]. Outside UK, disease clusters differ by population. Guisado-Clavero et al. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR28">28</xref>] found 5 clusters in a Spanish population: musculoskeletal, endocrine-metabolic, digestive, neurological and cardiovascular clusters. A Chilean study [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR29">29</xref>] identified a broad depression/CVD/cancer cluster. A Chinese study [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>] manually identified clusters including hypertension, diabetes, coronary heart disease, COPD and stroke.</p><p id="Par71">The cancer/osteoarthritis cluster observed in both males and females aligns with findings from Krauth et al. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>], but whether this reflects shared risk factors (e.g. ageing) or common biological mechanisms remains uncertain. Prior research offers mixed evidence regarding this association. Ward and Alehashemi observed that osteoarthritis was associated with higher risk of breast, uterus and prostate cancers [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR31">31</xref>], but Beydon et al. indicated higher risk of lung, bladder, uterus and prostate cancers, but lower risks of cancers of pancreas and breast [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR32">32</xref>]. In contrast, Turkiewicz et al. found no association between osteoarthritis and most cancers, except for a negative association with colorectal cancer [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR33">33</xref>]. Mendelian randomisation studies suggested a positive association between osteoarthritis and bladder cancer [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR34">34</xref>], and ovarian and breast cancers in females [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR35">35</xref>]. Notably, most prior research was conducted in general populations, leaving the interaction between SLD, osteoarthritis and cancer risk largely unexplored. Further investigations are needed to clarify these associations and underlying mechanisms, which may be due to chronic inflammation, ageing and metabolic dysregulation. Given the limited research on this association in SLD populations, further investigation is warranted to clarify potential mechanisms.</p><p id="Par72">Sex differences in cluster distribution were also evident, particularly in cardiovascular and mental health clusters. Males were significantly more likely to fall into cardiovascular clusters than females, with 28.4% of males assigned to these clusters (20.3% and 8.1% to the heart and stroke clusters, respectively), compared to 11.0% of females. This aligns with established evidence that males have higher CVD burden than females, driven by lifestyle and hormonal differences [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR36">36</xref>], and this sex disparity in CVD is projected to continue widening [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR37">37</xref>], further emphasising the importance of considering sex difference in CVD management [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR38">38</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR39">39</xref>]. A mental health cluster characterised by depression and anxiety was identified in both males and females, but substance use disorder was prevalent only in males, consistent with evidence indicating a significantly higher burden of substance use disorder in males than in females [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR40">40</xref>]. A thyroid cluster specifically in females rather than in males reflects a higher prevalence of thyroid disorders in females [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR41">41</xref>].</p><p id="Par73">The characteristics of disease clusters were further influenced by age, ethnicity, socioeconomic status and lifestyle factors. Individuals in the mental health and respiratory clusters were generally younger than those in cancer or cardiovascular clusters, likely reflecting the earlier onset of mental health and respiratory conditions compared to cancers and CVDs. Socioeconomic disparities were also evident, with the cancer and cardiovascular clusters being more prevalent among individuals with lower education attainment and greater socioeconomic deprivation. Additionally, we observed ethnic differences in cluster distribution, with White ethnicity more likely to fall into the mental health cluster [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR42">42</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR44">44</xref>].</p><p id="Par74">MM was strongly linked to increased mortality, a finding consistent with prior studies [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR45">45</xref>]. Research has also highlighted the contribution of MM to increased risk of dementia [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>] and cancers [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR46">46</xref>]. Our study complemented the existing evidence by showing that extrahepatic MM increased mortality of CVD, extrahepatic cancers and liver-related diseases in people with SLD.</p><p id="Par75">Cardiovascular-related clusters carried the highest mortality risk, underscoring the disproportionate burden of cardiovascular multimorbidity. This finding aligns with previous research. For example, a Hong Kong study [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR47">47</xref>] found that cardiovascular and cardiometabolic clusters had substantially higher mortality rate among eight clusters. Swain et al. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR48">48</xref>] found that cardiovascular-musculoskeletal cluster was associated with the highest mortality, GP consultations and hospitalisation rate, followed by the cardiovascular cluster, among the five clusters. Krauth et al. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>] found increased mortality in the cardiometabolic and cancer clusters in UK Biobank. Collectively, these findings reinforce the critical tole of cardiovascular diseases in driving excess mortality, emphasising the need for early intervention and targeted management strategies to mitigate the risk.</p><p id="Par76">The strong association between multimorbidity and mortality highlights the urgent need for a more integrated approach to SLD management. Instead of addressing conditions in isolation, care pathways must be adapted to account for the cumulative burden of multiple diseases. The identification of distinct disease clusters supports a more targeted approach to multimorbidity management. For instance, individuals in cardiovascular clusters&#x02014;who face the highest mortality risk&#x02014;may benefit from early and intensive cardiovascular risk management, including aggressive lipid and blood pressure control, lifestyle interventions and close monitoring for cardiac events.</p><p id="Par77">Exploring sex differences in clustering patterns and outcomes is important. In our study, the clustering was conducted separately for males and females, and the latent classes are defined independently in each sex. Therefore, the resulting clusters are not directly comparable between sexes. Even if they share similar labels (e.g. respiratory cluster, mental health cluster), the underlying disease profiles and prevalences differ. Therefore, direct statistical testing of between-sex differences in cluster structure is neither straightforward nor necessarily meaningful. Moreover, some clusters are sex-specific, such as the thyroid cluster in females, while others diverge in structure, for example, females had one broad cardiovascular cluster, whereas males had two separate cluster for heart disease and stroke. This asymmetry precluded a valid interaction analysis between sex and cluster membership.</p><p id="Par78">The disease clusters identified in this study offer important clinical implications for individuals with SLD. First, they provide a framework for risk stratification, as distinct clusters were associated with different mortality risks, with cardiovascular-related clusters showing the highest mortality. This can help clinicians identify high-risk subgroups, such as those with cardiovascular risk factors or diseases, and tailor management accordingly to reduce cardiovascular comorbidities. Second, the clusters support personalised care pathways, by highlighting common co-occurring conditions that may benefit from integrated services (e.g. joint cardiology and liver, or joint psychiatry and liver clinics). Third, these clusters align with and extend known multimorbidity patterns in chronic diseases, including previously described associations between SLD and cardiometabolic conditions [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>]; therefore, cardiometabolic comorbidity prevention and liver progression should be emphasised. The presence of sex-specific clusters (e.g. a thyroid cluster in females and differentiated CVD clusters in males) underscores the need for sex-sensitive approaches in prevention and care. Additionally, understanding the composition and outcomes of these clusters may inform healthcare planning and resource allocation, particularly in settings with a high burden of multimorbidity. Overall, these findings support the potential of multimorbidity clustering to enhance clinical decision-making and improve outcomes in people with SLD.</p><p id="Par79">This study has several strengths, including a large sample size, long follow-up period and comprehensive multimorbidity phenotyping. We also conducted various sensitivity analyses and confirmed the stability of the clustering process and validity of the derived clusters and cluster assignments. However, several limitations should be acknowledged. First, we used the FLI to indicate liver steatosis rather than imaging or histological evidence, which may introduce misclassification bias; however, FLI has been widely used as a non-invasive indicator for liver steatosis. Second, our multimorbidity phenotyping relied on self-reported data and hospital records, excluding primary care data, potentially leading to an underrepresentation of milder disease cases. This may introduce misclassification bias. We defined comorbidity based on validated codelists and used algorithms consistent with previous published work using UK Biobank [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR49">49</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR50">50</xref>]. Third, UK Biobank participants tend to be predominantly White, less socioeconomically deprived and healthier than the general population [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR51">51</xref>], limiting the generalisability of our findings to more diverse or disadvantaged populations. Lastly, we did not account for the temporal sequence of disease development, which may influence the clustering patterns observed.</p></sec><sec id="Sec15"><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par80">In this large cohort study of individuals with SLD and extrahepatic multimorbidity, we identified distinct disease clusters that differed by sex and were associated with varying mortality risks. Cardiovascular-related clusters had the highest mortality, highlighting the need for targeted prevention and management strategies. Our findings underscore the complex interplay between multimorbidity and SLD, emphasising the importance of a holistic, patient-centred approach to risk stratification and clinical care. Further research is needed to explore the underlying mechanisms and potential interventions to mitigate the burden of multimorbidity in this population.</p></sec><sec id="Sec16" sec-type="supplementary-material"><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>
<supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM1"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4288_MOESM1_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Additional file 1: Supplementary methods. Figures S1&#x02013;S3. Tables S1&#x02013;S10. Fig. S1. Sample size-adjusted Bayesian information criterion (aBIC) versus number of clusters in latent class analyses. Fig. S2. Distributions of derived clusters in people with steatotic liver disease. Fig. S3. Causes of death in males and females with steatotic liver disease and multimorbidity, stratified by disease clusters. Table S1. Number of clusters and model performance measures in latent class analyses. Table S2. List of conditions in each cluster that had a probability&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;5% and higher within-cluster prevalence than overall prevalence. Table S3. Baseline characteristics of males with steatotic liver disease, stratified by disease clusters. Table S4. Baseline characteristics of females with steatotic liver disease, stratified by disease clusters. Table S5. Associations between disease clusters and all-cause mortality in males and females with steatotic liver disease. Table S6. Sensitivity analysis for associations between disease clusters and all-cause mortality in males and females with steatotic liver disease. Table S7. Latent class analysis derived disease clusters in males and females with steatotic liver disease in sensitivity analyses of random samples of 80% and 50% of total sample. Table S8. Posterior probability in each cluster derived from full, 80% and 50% samples using latent class analysis (showing median (interquartile interval)). Table S9. Proportion of people with posterior probability&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;70%. Table S10. Associations (HR (95%CI)) between the disease clusters and all-cause mortality, and mortality of cardiovascular diseases and extrahepatic cancers, hepatocellular carcinoma and liver-related diseases in males and females with SLD in sensitivity analysis removing individuals with posterior probability&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;70%.</p></caption></media></supplementary-material></p></sec></body><back><glossary><title>Abbreviations</title><def-list><def-item><term>SLD</term><def><p id="Par14">Steatotic liver disease</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CVD</term><def><p id="Par15">Cardiovascular disease</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>HR</term><def><p id="Par16">Hazard ratio</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CI</term><def><p id="Par17">Confidence interval</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>HCC</term><def><p id="Par18">Hepatocellular carcinoma</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MM</term><def><p id="Par19">Multimorbidity</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>LTC</term><def><p id="Par20">Long-term condition</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>FLI</term><def><p id="Par21">Fatty liver index</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>BMI</term><def><p id="Par22">Body mass index</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>TG</term><def><p id="Par23">Triglycerides</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>GGT</term><def><p id="Par24">Gamma-glutamyl transferase</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MASLD</term><def><p id="Par25">Dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MetALD</term><def><p id="Par26">Metabolic dysfunction and alcohol related liver disease</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ALD</term><def><p id="Par27">Alcohol related liver disease</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CMRF</term><def><p id="Par28">Cardiometabolic risk factors</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>HDL</term><def><p id="Par29">High-density lipoprotein</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>LCA</term><def><p id="Par30">Latent class analysis</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>BIC</term><def><p id="Par31">Bayesian information criterion</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>aBIC</term><def><p id="Par32">Adjusted Bayesian information criterion</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>AIC</term><def><p id="Par33">Akaike information criterion</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>O/E ratio</term><def><p id="Par34">Observed/expected prevalence ratio</p></def></def-item></def-list></glossary><fn-group><fn><p><bold>Publisher's Note</bold></p><p>Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.&#x000a0;</p></fn></fn-group><ack><title>Acknowledgements
</title><p>We sincerely thank the UK Biobank participants and staff for their contribution to this valuable data resource. This study was conducted under application number 74018.</p></ack><notes notes-type="author-contribution"><title>Authors' contributions
</title><p>QF conceived the research idea, conducted data analysis and drafted the manuscript. CI, TB, AS and MW provided methodological support, interpreted results. QF, CI, TB, AS, MW and PM critically reviewed and revised the manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.</p></notes><notes notes-type="funding-information"><title>Funding</title><p>QF was funded/supported by the NIHR Imperial Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) (NIHR203323). The views expressed are those of the author(s) and not necessarily those of the NIHR or the Department of Health and Social Care.</p><p>The Section of Investigative Medicine and Endocrinology at Imperial College London is funded by grants from the MRC, NIHR and is supported by the NIHR Biomedical Research Centre Funding Scheme and the NIHR/Imperial Clinical Research Facility. CI is funded by an NIHR Senior Clinical and Practitioner Research Award (NIHR304591) and an NIHR Imperial BRC Pilot Grant (PSR328).</p><p>The Division of Digestive Diseases at Imperial College London receives financial support from the National Institute of Health Research (NIHR) Imperial Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) based at Imperial College London and Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust.</p></notes><notes notes-type="data-availability"><title>Data availability
</title><p>UK Biobank data are available to registered researchers at <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://www.ukbiobank.ac.uk/">https://www.ukbiobank.ac.uk/</ext-link>.</p></notes><notes><title>Declarations</title><notes id="FPar1"><title>Ethics approval and consent to participate</title><p id="Par81">UK Biobank received ethical approval from the National Information Governance Board for Health and Social Care and the National Health Service North West Multi-centre Centre for Research Ethics Committee (Ref: 21/NW/0157). All participants provided informed consent at recruitment to the study for their data to be used for health-related research that was in the public interest.</p><p id="Par82">UK Biobank has approval from the North West Multi-centre Research Ethics Committee as a Research Tissue Bank approval. This approval means that researchers do not require separate ethical clearance.</p></notes><notes id="FPar2"><title>Consent for publication</title><p id="Par83">All authors have approved this manuscript for publication.</p></notes><notes id="FPar3" notes-type="COI-statement"><title>Competing interests</title><p id="Par84">The authors declare no competing interests.</p></notes></notes><ref-list id="Bib1"><title>References
</title><ref id="CR1"><label>1.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR1" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Riazi</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Azhari</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Charette</surname><given-names>JH</given-names></name><name><surname>Underwood</surname><given-names>FE</given-names></name><name><surname>King</surname><given-names>JA</given-names></name><name><surname>Afshar</surname><given-names>EE</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The prevalence and incidence of NAFLD worldwide: a systematic review and meta-analysis</article-title><source>Lancet Gastroenterol Hepatol</source><year>2022</year><volume>7</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>851</fpage><lpage>861</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35798021</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR1" publication-type="journal">Riazi K, Azhari H, Charette JH, Underwood FE, King JA, Afshar EE, et al. The prevalence and incidence of NAFLD worldwide: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Lancet Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2022;7(9):851&#x02013;61.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35798021</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR2"><label>2.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR2" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Powell</surname><given-names>EE</given-names></name><name><surname>Wong</surname><given-names>VWS</given-names></name><name><surname>Rinella</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2021</year><volume>397</volume><issue>10290</issue><fpage>2212</fpage><lpage>2224</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33894145</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR2" publication-type="journal">Powell EE, Wong VWS, Rinella M. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Lancet. 2021;397(10290):2212&#x02013;24.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33894145</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR3"><label>3.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR3" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Israelsen</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Francque</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Tsochatzis</surname><given-names>EA</given-names></name><name><surname>Krag</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Steatotic liver disease</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2024</year><volume>404</volume><issue>10464</issue><fpage>1761</fpage><lpage>1778</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39488409</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR3" publication-type="journal">Israelsen M, Francque S, Tsochatzis EA, Krag A. Steatotic liver disease. Lancet. 2024;404(10464):1761&#x02013;78.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39488409</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR4"><label>4.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR4" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Godoy-Matos</surname><given-names>AF</given-names></name><name><surname>Silva J&#x000fa;nior</surname><given-names>WS</given-names></name><name><surname>Valerio</surname><given-names>CM</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Nafld as a continuum: from obesity to metabolic syndrome and diabetes</article-title><source>Diabetol Metab Syndr</source><year>2020</year><volume>12</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>60</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32684985</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR4" publication-type="journal">Godoy-Matos AF, Silva J&#x000fa;nior WS, Valerio CM. Nafld as a continuum: from obesity to metabolic syndrome and diabetes. Diabetol Metab Syndr. 2020;12(1):60.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32684985</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR5"><label>5.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR5" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kasper</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Martin</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Lang</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>K&#x000fc;tting</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Goeser</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Demir</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>NAFLD and cardiovascular diseases: a clinical review</article-title><source>Clin Res Cardiol</source><year>2021</year><volume>110</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>921</fpage><lpage>937</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32696080</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR5" publication-type="journal">Kasper P, Martin A, Lang S, K&#x000fc;tting F, Goeser T, Demir M, et al. NAFLD and cardiovascular diseases: a clinical review. Clin Res Cardiol. 2021;110(7):921&#x02013;37.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32696080</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR6"><label>6.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR6" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bonora</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Targher</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Increased risk of cardiovascular disease and chronic kidney disease in NAFLD</article-title><source>Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol</source><year>2012</year><volume>9</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>372</fpage><lpage>381</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22565095</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR6" publication-type="journal">Bonora E, Targher G. Increased risk of cardiovascular disease and chronic kidney disease in NAFLD. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012;9(7):372&#x02013;81.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22565095</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR7"><label>7.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR7" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Thomas</surname><given-names>JA</given-names></name><name><surname>Kendall</surname><given-names>BJ</given-names></name><name><surname>El-Serag</surname><given-names>HB</given-names></name><name><surname>Thrift</surname><given-names>AP</given-names></name><name><surname>Macdonald</surname><given-names>GA</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Hepatocellular and extrahepatic cancer risk in people with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease</article-title><source>Lancet Gastroenterol Hepatol</source><year>2024</year><volume>9</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>159</fpage><lpage>169</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38215780</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR7" publication-type="journal">Thomas JA, Kendall BJ, El-Serag HB, Thrift AP, Macdonald GA. Hepatocellular and extrahepatic cancer risk in people with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Lancet Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2024;9(2):159&#x02013;69.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38215780</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR8"><label>8.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">The Academy of medical Research. Multimorbidity: a priority for global health research. 2018. Available from: <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://acmedsci.ac.uk/file-download/82222577">https://acmedsci.ac.uk/file-download/82222577</ext-link> . Cited 2024 May 8.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR9"><label>9.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR9" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Skou</surname><given-names>ST</given-names></name><name><surname>Mair</surname><given-names>FS</given-names></name><name><surname>Fortin</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Guthrie</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Nunes</surname><given-names>BP</given-names></name><name><surname>Miranda</surname><given-names>JJ</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Multimorbidity</article-title><source>Nat Rev Dis Primers</source><year>2022</year><volume>8</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>48</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35835758</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR9" publication-type="journal">Skou ST, Mair FS, Fortin M, Guthrie B, Nunes BP, Miranda JJ, et al. Multimorbidity. Nat Rev Dis Primers. 2022;8(1):48.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35835758</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR10"><label>10.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR10" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Whitty</surname><given-names>CJM</given-names></name><name><surname>Watt</surname><given-names>FM</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Map clusters of diseases to tackle multimorbidity</article-title><source>Nature</source><year>2020</year><volume>579</volume><issue>7800</issue><fpage>494</fpage><lpage>496</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32210388</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR10" publication-type="journal">Whitty CJM, Watt FM. Map clusters of diseases to tackle multimorbidity. Nature. 2020;579(7800):494&#x02013;6.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32210388</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR11"><label>11.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR11" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Calvin</surname><given-names>CM</given-names></name><name><surname>Conroy</surname><given-names>MC</given-names></name><name><surname>Moore</surname><given-names>SF</given-names></name><name><surname>Ku&#x0017a;ma</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Littlejohns</surname><given-names>TJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Association of multimorbidity, disease clusters, and modification by genetic factors with risk of dementia</article-title><source>JAMA Netw Open</source><year>2022</year><volume>5</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>e2232124</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36125811</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR11" publication-type="journal">Calvin CM, Conroy MC, Moore SF, Ku&#x0017a;ma E, Littlejohns TJ. Association of multimorbidity, disease clusters, and modification by genetic factors with risk of dementia. JAMA Netw Open. 2022;5(9):e2232124.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36125811</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR12"><label>12.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR12" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Krauth</surname><given-names>SJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Steell</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Ahmed</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>McIntosh</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Dibben</surname><given-names>GO</given-names></name><name><surname>Hanlon</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association of latent class analysis-derived multimorbidity clusters with adverse health outcomes in patients with multiple long-term conditions: comparative results across three UK cohorts</article-title><source>eClinicalMedicine</source><year>2024</year><volume>74</volume><fpage>102703</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39045545</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR12" publication-type="journal">Krauth SJ, Steell L, Ahmed S, McIntosh E, Dibben GO, Hanlon P, et al. Association of latent class analysis-derived multimorbidity clusters with adverse health outcomes in patients with multiple long-term conditions: comparative results across three UK cohorts. eClinicalMedicine. 2024;74:102703.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39045545</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR13"><label>13.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR13" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bedogni</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Bellentani</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Miglioli</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Masutti</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Passalacqua</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Castiglione</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The fatty liver index: a simple and accurate predictor of hepatic steatosis in the general population</article-title><source>BMC Gastroenterol</source><year>2006</year><volume>6</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>33</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17081293</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR13" publication-type="journal">Bedogni G, Bellentani S, Miglioli L, Masutti F, Passalacqua M, Castiglione A, et al. The fatty liver index: a simple and accurate predictor of hepatic steatosis in the general population. BMC Gastroenterol. 2006;6(1):33.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17081293</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR14"><label>14.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR14" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ma</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Wen</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Han</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Lyu</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association of NAFLD with cardiovascular disease and all-cause mortality: a large-scale prospective cohort study based on UK Biobank</article-title><source>Ther Adv Chronic Dis</source><year>2022</year><volume>13</volume><fpage>204062232211224</fpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR14" publication-type="journal">Ma W, Wu W, Wen W, Xu F, Han D, Lyu J, et al. Association of NAFLD with cardiovascular disease and all-cause mortality: a large-scale prospective cohort study based on UK Biobank. Ther Adv Chronic Dis. 2022;13:204062232211224.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR15"><label>15.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR15" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ho</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Thompson</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Jorgensen</surname><given-names>AL</given-names></name><name><surname>Pirmohamed</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Role of fatty liver index in risk-stratifying comorbid disease outcomes in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease</article-title><source>JHEP Rep</source><year>2023</year><volume>5</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>100896</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37928746</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR15" publication-type="journal">Ho B, Thompson A, Jorgensen AL, Pirmohamed M. Role of fatty liver index in risk-stratifying comorbid disease outcomes in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. JHEP Rep. 2023;5(12):100896.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37928746</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR16"><label>16.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR16" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Rinella</surname><given-names>ME</given-names></name><name><surname>Lazarus</surname><given-names>JV</given-names></name><name><surname>Ratziu</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Francque</surname><given-names>SM</given-names></name><name><surname>Sanyal</surname><given-names>AJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Kanwal</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>A multisociety Delphi consensus statement on new fatty liver disease nomenclature</article-title><source>J Hepatol</source><year>2023</year><volume>79</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>1542</fpage><lpage>56</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37364790</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR16" publication-type="journal">Rinella ME, Lazarus JV, Ratziu V, Francque SM, Sanyal AJ, Kanwal F, et al. A multisociety Delphi consensus statement on new fatty liver disease nomenclature. J Hepatol. 2023;79(6):1542&#x02013;56.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37364790</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR17"><label>17.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR17" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ho</surname><given-names>ISS</given-names></name><name><surname>Azcoaga-Lorenzo</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Akbari</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Davies</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Khunti</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Kadam</surname><given-names>UT</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Measuring multimorbidity in research: delphi consensus study</article-title><source>BMJ Med</source><year>2022</year><volume>1</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>e000247</fpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR17" publication-type="journal">Ho ISS, Azcoaga-Lorenzo A, Akbari A, Davies J, Khunti K, Kadam UT, et al. Measuring multimorbidity in research: delphi consensus study. BMJ Med. 2022;1(1): e000247.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR18"><label>18.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR18" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Weller</surname><given-names>BE</given-names></name><name><surname>Bowen</surname><given-names>NK</given-names></name><name><surname>Faubert</surname><given-names>SJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Latent class analysis: a guide to best practice</article-title><source>J Black Psychol</source><year>2020</year><volume>46</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>287</fpage><lpage>311</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR18" publication-type="journal">Weller BE, Bowen NK, Faubert SJ. Latent class analysis: a guide to best practice. J Black Psychol. 2020;46(4):287&#x02013;311.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR19"><label>19.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR19" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Roso-Llorach</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Vetrano</surname><given-names>DL</given-names></name><name><surname>Trevisan</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Fern&#x000e1;ndez</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Guisado-Clavero</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Carrasco-Ribelles</surname><given-names>LA</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>12-year evolution of multimorbidity patterns among older adults based on hidden Markov models</article-title><source>Aging (Albany NY)</source><year>2022</year><volume>14</volume><issue>24</issue><fpage>9805</fpage><lpage>17</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36435509</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR19" publication-type="journal">Roso-Llorach A, Vetrano DL, Trevisan C, Fern&#x000e1;ndez S, Guisado-Clavero M, Carrasco-Ribelles LA, et al. 12-year evolution of multimorbidity patterns among older adults based on hidden Markov models. Aging (Albany NY). 2022;14(24):9805&#x02013;17.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36435509</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR20"><label>20.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Issa G, Shang Y, Strandberg R, Hagstr&#x000f6;m H, Wester A. Cause-specific mortality in 13,099 patients with metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease in Sweden. J Hepatol. 2025;S0168-8278(25)00156-4.&#x000a0;<ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/40139508/">https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/40139508/</ext-link>.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR21"><label>21.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR21" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Simon</surname><given-names>TG</given-names></name><name><surname>Roelstraete</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Khalili</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Hagstr&#x000f6;m</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Ludvigsson</surname><given-names>JF</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Mortality in biopsy-confirmed nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: results from a nationwide cohort</article-title><source>Gut</source><year>2021</year><volume>70</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>1375</fpage><lpage>1382</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33037056</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR21" publication-type="journal">Simon TG, Roelstraete B, Khalili H, Hagstr&#x000f6;m H, Ludvigsson JF. Mortality in biopsy-confirmed nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: results from a nationwide cohort. Gut. 2021;70(7):1375&#x02013;82.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33037056</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR22"><label>22.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR22" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Chung</surname><given-names>GE</given-names></name><name><surname>Yu</surname><given-names>SJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Yoo</surname><given-names>JJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Cho</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>KN</given-names></name><name><surname>Shin</surname><given-names>DW</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Lean or diabetic subtypes predict increased all-cause and disease-specific mortality in metabolic-associated fatty liver disease</article-title><source>BMC Med</source><year>2023</year><volume>21</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>4</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36600263</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR22" publication-type="journal">Chung GE, Yu SJ, Yoo JJ, Cho Y, Lee KN, Shin DW, et al. Lean or diabetic subtypes predict increased all-cause and disease-specific mortality in metabolic-associated fatty liver disease. BMC Med. 2023;21(1): 4.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36600263</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR23"><label>23.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR23" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Thompson</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Cook</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Choquet</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Jorgenson</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Yin</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Kinnunen</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Functional validity, role, and implications of heavy alcohol consumption genetic loci</article-title><source>Sci Adv</source><year>2020</year><volume>6</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>eaay5034</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31998841</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR23" publication-type="journal">Thompson A, Cook J, Choquet H, Jorgenson E, Yin J, Kinnunen T, et al. Functional validity, role, and implications of heavy alcohol consumption genetic loci. Sci Adv. 2020;6(3): eaay5034.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31998841</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR24"><label>24.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR24" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Dhafari</surname><given-names>TB</given-names></name><name><surname>Pate</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Azadbakht</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Bailey</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Rafferty</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Jalali-najafabadi</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>A scoping review finds a growing trend in studies validating multimorbidity patterns and identifies five broad types of validation methods</article-title><source>J Clin Epidemiol</source><year>2024</year><volume>165</volume><fpage>111214</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37952700</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR24" publication-type="journal">Dhafari TB, Pate A, Azadbakht N, Bailey R, Rafferty J, Jalali-najafabadi F, et al. A scoping review finds a growing trend in studies validating multimorbidity patterns and identifies five broad types of validation methods. J Clin Epidemiol. 2024;165: 111214.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37952700</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR25"><label>25.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR25" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Busija</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Lim</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Szoeke</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Sanders</surname><given-names>KM</given-names></name><name><surname>McCabe</surname><given-names>MP</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Do replicable profiles of multimorbidity exist? Systematic review and synthesis</article-title><source>Eur J Epidemiol</source><year>2019</year><volume>34</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>1025</fpage><lpage>1053</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31624969</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR25" publication-type="journal">Busija L, Lim K, Szoeke C, Sanders KM, McCabe MP. Do replicable profiles of multimorbidity exist? Systematic review and synthesis. Eur J Epidemiol. 2019;34(11):1025&#x02013;53.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31624969</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR26"><label>26.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR26" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bisquera</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Gulliford</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Dodhia</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Ledwaba-Chapman</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Durbaba</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Soley-Bori</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Identifying longitudinal clusters of multimorbidity in an urban setting: a population-based cross-sectional study</article-title><source>The Lancet Regional Health - Europe</source><year>2021</year><volume>3</volume><fpage>100047</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34557797</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR26" publication-type="journal">Bisquera A, Gulliford M, Dodhia H, Ledwaba-Chapman L, Durbaba S, Soley-Bori M, et al. Identifying longitudinal clusters of multimorbidity in an urban setting: a population-based cross-sectional study. The Lancet Regional Health - Europe. 2021;3:100047.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34557797</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR27"><label>27.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR27" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Prasad</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Bjourson</surname><given-names>AJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Shukla</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Data-driven patient stratification of UK Biobank cohort suggests five endotypes of multimorbidity</article-title><source>Brief Bioinform</source><year>2022</year><volume>23</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>bbac410</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36209412</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR27" publication-type="journal">Prasad B, Bjourson AJ, Shukla P. Data-driven patient stratification of UK Biobank cohort suggests five endotypes of multimorbidity. Brief Bioinform. 2022;23(6):bbac410.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36209412</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR28"><label>28.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR28" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Guisado-Clavero</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Roso-Llorach</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>L&#x000f3;pez-Jimenez</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Pons-Vigu&#x000e9;s</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Foguet-Boreu</surname><given-names>Q</given-names></name><name><surname>Mu&#x000f1;oz</surname><given-names>MA</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Multimorbidity patterns in the elderly: a prospective cohort study with cluster analysis</article-title><source>BMC Geriatr</source><year>2018</year><volume>18</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>16</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29338690</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR28" publication-type="journal">Guisado-Clavero M, Roso-Llorach A, L&#x000f3;pez-Jimenez T, Pons-Vigu&#x000e9;s M, Foguet-Boreu Q, Mu&#x000f1;oz MA, et al. Multimorbidity patterns in the elderly: a prospective cohort study with cluster analysis. BMC Geriatr. 2018;18(1):16.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29338690</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR29"><label>29.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR29" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Nazar</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>D&#x000ed;az-Toro</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Concha-Cisternas</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Leiva-Ordo&#x000f1;ez</surname><given-names>AM</given-names></name><name><surname>Troncoso-Pantoja</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Celis-Morales</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Latent class analyses of multimorbidity and all-cause mortality: a prospective study in Chilean adults</article-title><source>PLoS One</source><year>2023</year><volume>18</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>e0295958</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38113219</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR29" publication-type="journal">Nazar G, D&#x000ed;az-Toro F, Concha-Cisternas Y, Leiva-Ordo&#x000f1;ez AM, Troncoso-Pantoja C, Celis-Morales C, et al. Latent class analyses of multimorbidity and all-cause mortality: a prospective study in Chilean adults. PLoS One. 2023;18(12): e0295958.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38113219</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR30"><label>30.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">He K, Zhang W, Hu X, Zhao H, Guo B, Shi Z, et al. Relationship between multimorbidity, disease cluster and all-cause mortality among older adults: a retrospective cohort analysis. BMC Public Health. 2021;21(1). Available from: <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://bmcpublichealth.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12889-021-11108-w">https://bmcpublichealth.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12889-021-11108-w</ext-link>.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR31"><label>31.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR31" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ward</surname><given-names>MM</given-names></name><name><surname>Alehashemi</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Risks of solid cancers in elderly persons with osteoarthritis or ankylosing spondylitis</article-title><source>Rheumatology (Oxford)</source><year>2020</year><volume>59</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>3817</fpage><lpage>3825</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32442295</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR31" publication-type="journal">Ward MM, Alehashemi S. Risks of solid cancers in elderly persons with osteoarthritis or ankylosing spondylitis. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2020;59(12):3817&#x02013;25.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32442295</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR32"><label>32.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR32" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Beydon</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Pinto</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>De Rycke</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Fautrel</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Mariette</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Seror</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Risk of cancer for patients with rheumatoid arthritis versus general population: a national claims database cohort study</article-title><source>The Lancet Regional Health - Europe</source><year>2023</year><volume>35</volume><fpage>100768</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37954220</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR32" publication-type="journal">Beydon M, Pinto S, De Rycke Y, Fautrel B, Mariette X, Seror R, et al. Risk of cancer for patients with rheumatoid arthritis versus general population: a national claims database cohort study. The Lancet Regional Health - Europe. 2023;35:100768.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37954220</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR33"><label>33.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR33" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Turkiewicz</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>D&#x000ed;az</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Duarte-Salles</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Prieto-Alhambra</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Knee and hip osteoarthritis and risk of nine cancers in a large real-world matched cohort study</article-title><source>Rheumatology</source><year>2022</year><volume>61</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>2325</fpage><lpage>2334</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34599812</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR33" publication-type="journal">Turkiewicz A, D&#x000ed;az Y, Duarte-Salles T, Prieto-Alhambra D. Knee and hip osteoarthritis and risk of nine cancers in a large real-world matched cohort study. Rheumatology. 2022;61(6):2325&#x02013;34.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34599812</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR34"><label>34.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR34" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Wen</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Xing</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhou</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Dong</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The causal relationship between osteoarthritis and bladder cancer: a Mendelian randomization study</article-title><source>Cancer Med</source><year>2024</year><volume>13</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>e6829</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38100139</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR34" publication-type="journal">Zhang X, Wen Z, Xing Z, Zhou X, Yang Z, Dong R, et al. The causal relationship between osteoarthritis and bladder cancer: a Mendelian randomization study. Cancer Med. 2024;13(1):e6829.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38100139</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR35"><label>35.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR35" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Meisinger</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Fischer</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>O&#x02019;Mara</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Freuer</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Two-sample Mendelian randomization to evaluate the causal relationship between inflammatory arthritis and female-specific cancers</article-title><source>J Transl Med</source><year>2024</year><volume>22</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>962</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39449068</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR35" publication-type="journal">Meisinger C, Fischer S, O&#x02019;Mara T, Freuer D. Two-sample Mendelian randomization to evaluate the causal relationship between inflammatory arthritis and female-specific cancers. J Transl Med. 2024;22(1):962.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39449068</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR36"><label>36.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR36" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Roth</surname><given-names>GA</given-names></name><name><surname>Mensah</surname><given-names>GA</given-names></name><name><surname>Johnson</surname><given-names>CO</given-names></name><name><surname>Addolorato</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Ammirati</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Baddour</surname><given-names>LM</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Global burden of cardiovascular diseases and risk factors, 1990&#x02013;2019</article-title><source>J Am Coll Cardiol</source><year>2020</year><volume>76</volume><issue>25</issue><fpage>2982</fpage><lpage>3021</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33309175</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR36" publication-type="journal">Roth GA, Mensah GA, Johnson CO, Addolorato G, Ammirati E, Baddour LM, et al. Global burden of cardiovascular diseases and risk factors, 1990&#x02013;2019. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2020;76(25):2982&#x02013;3021.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33309175</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR37"><label>37.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Chong B, Jayabaskaran J, Jauhari SM, Chan SP, Goh R, Kueh MTW, et al. Global burden of cardiovascular diseases: projections from 2025 to 2050. Eur J Prev Cardiol. 2024:zwae281.&#x000a0;<ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://academic.oup.com/eurjpc/advance-article-abstract/doi/10.1093/eurjpc/zwae281/7756567?redirectedFrom=fulltext&#x00026;login=false">https://academic.oup.com/eurjpc/advance-article-abstract/doi/10.1093/eurjpc/zwae281/7756567?redirectedFrom=fulltext&#x00026;login=false</ext-link></mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR38"><label>38.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR38" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Pinho-Gomes</surname><given-names>AC</given-names></name><name><surname>Peters</surname><given-names>SAE</given-names></name><name><surname>Thomson</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Woodward</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Sex differences in prevalence, treatment and control of cardiovascular risk factors in England</article-title><source>Heart</source><year>2021</year><volume>107</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>462</fpage><lpage>467</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR38" publication-type="journal">Pinho-Gomes AC, Peters SAE, Thomson B, Woodward M. Sex differences in prevalence, treatment and control of cardiovascular risk factors in England. Heart. 2021;107(6):462&#x02013;7.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR39"><label>39.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR39" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Connelly</surname><given-names>PJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Azizi</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Alipour</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Delles</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Pilote</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Raparelli</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The importance of gender to understand sex differences in cardiovascular disease</article-title><source>Can J Cardiol</source><year>2021</year><volume>37</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>699</fpage><lpage>710</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33592281</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR39" publication-type="journal">Connelly PJ, Azizi Z, Alipour P, Delles C, Pilote L, Raparelli V. The importance of gender to understand sex differences in cardiovascular disease. Can J Cardiol. 2021;37(5):699&#x02013;710.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33592281</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR40"><label>40.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR40" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Volkow</surname><given-names>ND</given-names></name><name><surname>Blanco</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Substance use disorders: a comprehensive update of classification, epidemiology, neurobiology, clinical aspects, treatment and prevention</article-title><source>World Psychiatry</source><year>2023</year><volume>22</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>203</fpage><lpage>229</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37159360</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR40" publication-type="journal">Volkow ND, Blanco C. Substance use disorders: a comprehensive update of classification, epidemiology, neurobiology, clinical aspects, treatment and prevention. World Psychiatry. 2023;22(2):203&#x02013;29.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37159360</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR41"><label>41.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR41" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Vanderpump</surname><given-names>MPJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The epidemiology of thyroid disease</article-title><source>Br Med Bull</source><year>2011</year><volume>99</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>39</fpage><lpage>51</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21893493</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR41" publication-type="journal">Vanderpump MPJ. The epidemiology of thyroid disease. Br Med Bull. 2011;99(1):39&#x02013;51.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21893493</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR42"><label>42.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR42" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Alvarez</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Fillbrunn</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Green</surname><given-names>JG</given-names></name><name><surname>Jackson</surname><given-names>JS</given-names></name><name><surname>Kessler</surname><given-names>RC</given-names></name><name><surname>McLaughlin</surname><given-names>KA</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Race/ethnicity, nativity, and lifetime risk of mental disorders in US adults</article-title><source>Soc Psychiatry Psychiatr Epidemiol</source><year>2019</year><volume>54</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>553</fpage><lpage>565</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30547212</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR42" publication-type="journal">Alvarez K, Fillbrunn M, Green JG, Jackson JS, Kessler RC, McLaughlin KA, et al. Race/ethnicity, nativity, and lifetime risk of mental disorders in US adults. Soc Psychiatry Psychiatr Epidemiol. 2019;54(5):553&#x02013;65.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30547212</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR43"><label>43.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR43" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Irizar</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Taylor</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Kapadia</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Pierce</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>B&#x000e9;cares</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Goodwin</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The prevalence of common mental disorders across 18 ethnic groups in Britain during the COVID-19 pandemic: evidence for equality national survey (EVENS)</article-title><source>J Affect Disord</source><year>2024</year><volume>358</volume><fpage>42</fpage><lpage>51</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38705522</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR43" publication-type="journal">Irizar P, Taylor H, Kapadia D, Pierce M, B&#x000e9;cares L, Goodwin L, et al. The prevalence of common mental disorders across 18 ethnic groups in Britain during the COVID-19 pandemic: evidence for equality national survey (EVENS). J Affect Disord. 2024;358:42&#x02013;51.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38705522</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR44"><label>44.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR44" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Delon</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Brown</surname><given-names>KF</given-names></name><name><surname>Payne</surname><given-names>NWS</given-names></name><name><surname>Kotrotsios</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Vernon</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Shelton</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Differences in cancer incidence by broad ethnic group in England, 2013&#x02013;2017</article-title><source>Br J Cancer</source><year>2022</year><volume>126</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>1765</fpage><lpage>1773</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35233092</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR44" publication-type="journal">Delon C, Brown KF, Payne NWS, Kotrotsios Y, Vernon S, Shelton J. Differences in cancer incidence by broad ethnic group in England, 2013&#x02013;2017. Br J Cancer. 2022;126(12):1765&#x02013;73.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35233092</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR45"><label>45.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR45" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Nunes</surname><given-names>BP</given-names></name><name><surname>Flores</surname><given-names>TR</given-names></name><name><surname>Mielke</surname><given-names>GI</given-names></name><name><surname>Thum&#x000e9;</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Facchini</surname><given-names>LA</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Multimorbidity and mortality in older adults: a systematic review and meta-analysis</article-title><source>Arch Gerontol Geriatr</source><year>2016</year><volume>67</volume><fpage>130</fpage><lpage>138</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27500661</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR45" publication-type="journal">Nunes BP, Flores TR, Mielke GI, Thum&#x000e9; E, Facchini LA. Multimorbidity and mortality in older adults: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2016;67:130&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27500661</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR46"><label>46.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR46" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Conroy</surname><given-names>MC</given-names></name><name><surname>Reeves</surname><given-names>GK</given-names></name><name><surname>Allen</surname><given-names>NE</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Multi-morbidity and its association with common cancer diagnoses: a UK Biobank prospective study</article-title><source>BMC Public Health</source><year>2023</year><volume>23</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>1300</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37415095</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR46" publication-type="journal">Conroy MC, Reeves GK, Allen NE. Multi-morbidity and its association with common cancer diagnoses: a UK Biobank prospective study. BMC Public Health. 2023;23(1):1300.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37415095</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR47"><label>47.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Hong SN, Lai FTT, Wang B, Choi EPH, Wong ICK, Lam CLK, et al. Age-specific multimorbidity patterns and burden on all-cause mortality and public direct medical expenditure: a retrospective cohort study. J Epidemiol Glob Health. 2024. Available from: <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://link.springer.com/10.1007/s44197-024-00256-y">https://link.springer.com/10.1007/s44197-024-00256-y</ext-link>. Cited 2024 Sep 17.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR48"><label>48.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR48" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Swain</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Coupland</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Strauss</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Mallen</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Kuo</surname><given-names>CF</given-names></name><name><surname>Sarmanova</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Clustering of comorbidities and associated outcomes in people with osteoarthritis - a UK clinical practice research datalink study</article-title><source>Osteoarthritis Cartilage</source><year>2022</year><volume>30</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>702</fpage><lpage>713</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35122943</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR48" publication-type="journal">Swain S, Coupland C, Strauss V, Mallen C, Kuo CF, Sarmanova A, et al. Clustering of comorbidities and associated outcomes in people with osteoarthritis - a UK clinical practice research datalink study. Osteoarthritis Cartilage. 2022;30(5):702&#x02013;13.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35122943</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR49"><label>49.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Feng Q, Izzi-Engbeaya CN, Branch AD, Mullish BH, Manousou P, Woodward M. The relationships between MASLD, extrahepatic multimorbidity and all-cause mortality in UK Biobank cohort. J Clin Endocrinol Metabol. 2025:dgaf342.&#x000a0;<ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/40493745/">https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/40493745/</ext-link></mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR50"><label>50.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Feng Q, Izzi-Engbeaya C, Manousou P, Woodward M. Fibrosis status, extra-hepatic multimorbidity and all-cause mortality in 53093 women and 74377 men with MASLD in UK Biobank. BMC Gastroenterol. 2025. Available from: <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="http://medrxiv.org/lookup/doi/10.1101/2025.03.09.25323329">http://medrxiv.org/lookup/doi/10.1101/2025.03.09.25323329</ext-link>. Cited 2025 Mar 17.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR51"><label>51.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR51" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Fry</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Littlejohns</surname><given-names>TJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Sudlow</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Doherty</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Adamska</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Sprosen</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Comparison of sociodemographic and health-related characteristics of UK biobank participants with those of the general population</article-title><source>Am J Epidemiol</source><year>2017</year><volume>186</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>1026</fpage><lpage>34</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28641372</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR51" publication-type="journal">Fry A, Littlejohns TJ, Sudlow C, Doherty N, Adamska L, Sprosen T, et al. Comparison of sociodemographic and health-related characteristics of UK biobank participants with those of the general population. Am J Epidemiol. 2017;186(9):1026&#x02013;34.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28641372</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref></ref-list></back></article>