# Increased prevalence of cardio-cerebrovascular risk factors during the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown: a large, single center, cross-sectional study.

<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//NLM//DTD JATS (Z39.96) Journal Archiving and Interchange DTD with MathML3 v1.3 20210610//EN" "JATS-archivearticle1-3-mathml3.dtd"> 
<article xmlns:ali="http://www.niso.org/schemas/ali/1.0/" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" article-type="research-article" dtd-version="1.3"><?properties open_access?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierValue -//Springer-Verlag//DTD A++ V2.4//EN?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierType public?><?SourceDTD.DTDName A++V2.4.dtd?><?SourceDTD.Version 2.4?><?ConverterInfo.XSLTName springer2nlmx2.xsl?><?ConverterInfo.Version 1?><processing-meta base-tagset="archiving" mathml-version="3.0" table-model="xhtml" tagset-family="jats"><restricted-by>pmc</restricted-by></processing-meta><front><journal-meta><journal-id journal-id-type="nlm-ta">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-id journal-id-type="iso-abbrev">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-title-group><journal-title>BMC Medicine</journal-title></journal-title-group><issn pub-type="epub">1741-7015</issn><publisher><publisher-name>BioMed Central</publisher-name><publisher-loc>London</publisher-loc></publisher></journal-meta>
<article-meta><article-id pub-id-type="pmcid">12239424</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="pmid">40629381</article-id>
<article-id pub-id-type="publisher-id">4193</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12916-025-04193-w</article-id><article-categories><subj-group subj-group-type="heading"><subject>Research</subject></subj-group></article-categories><title-group><article-title>Increased prevalence of cardio-cerebrovascular risk factors during the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown: a large, single center, cross-sectional study</article-title></title-group><contrib-group><contrib contrib-type="author" equal-contrib="yes"><name><surname>Lu</surname><given-names>Jinjing</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" equal-contrib="yes"><name><surname>Shen</surname><given-names>Yanyan</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" equal-contrib="yes"><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>Xiaoying</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Mao</surname><given-names>Yuqiang</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff4">4</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Jing</surname><given-names>Li</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>Zhiyong</given-names></name><address><email>a13940224343@163.com</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff5">5</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Pei</surname><given-names>Dongmei</given-names></name><address><email>peidm1111@hotmail.com</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Dong</surname><given-names>Weiwei</given-names></name><address><email>dongww@sj-hospital.org</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><aff id="Aff1"><label>1</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/0202bj006</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.412467.2</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 1806 3501</institution-id><institution>Department of Health Management, </institution><institution>Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University, </institution></institution-wrap>Shenyang, 110004 China </aff><aff id="Aff2"><label>2</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/0202bj006</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.412467.2</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 1806 3501</institution-id><institution>Department of Neurosurgery, </institution><institution>Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University, </institution></institution-wrap>Shenyang, 110004 China </aff><aff id="Aff3"><label>3</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/04wjghj95</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.412636.4</institution-id><institution>Department of Breast Surgery, </institution><institution>The First Affiliated Hospital of China Medical University, </institution></institution-wrap>Shenyang, 110001 China </aff><aff id="Aff4"><label>4</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/0202bj006</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.412467.2</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 1806 3501</institution-id><institution>Department of Thoracic Surgery, </institution><institution>Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University, </institution></institution-wrap>Shenyang, 110004 China </aff><aff id="Aff5"><label>5</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/0202bj006</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.412467.2</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 1806 3501</institution-id><institution>Department of Cardiology, </institution><institution>Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University, </institution></institution-wrap>Shenyang, 110004 China </aff></contrib-group><pub-date pub-type="epub"><day>9</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="pmc-release"><day>9</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="collection"><year>2025</year></pub-date><volume>23</volume><elocation-id>414</elocation-id><history><date date-type="received"><day>19</day><month>10</month><year>2024</year></date><date date-type="accepted"><day>4</day><month>6</month><year>2025</year></date></history><permissions><copyright-statement>&#x000a9; The Author(s) 2025</copyright-statement><copyright-year>2025</copyright-year><license><ali:license_ref specific-use="textmining" content-type="ccbyncndlicense">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ali:license_ref><license-p><bold>Open Access</bold> This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed material. You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/">http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ext-link>.</license-p></license></permissions><abstract id="Abs1"><sec><title>Background</title><p id="Par1">The COVID-19 pandemic prompted over 170 countries to implement lockdowns, significantly altering lifestyles and potentially impacting cardio-cerebrovascular risk factors (CCVRFs). This study evaluates changes in CCVRFs before, during, and after the lockdown, stratified by population subgroups. We aim to mitigate the lockdown&#x02019;s impact on CCVRFs, address knowledge gaps, and inform future health management strategies.</p></sec><sec><title>Methods</title><p id="Par2">This cross-sectional study analyzed preventive health assessment data of individuals at the Health Management Center of Shengjing Hospital, China Medical University. The study covers three timeframes: pre-pandemic (January 1, 2017, to December 31, 2019), during the pandemic lockdown (January 1, 2020, to December 31, 2022), and after the pandemic lockdown (January 1, 2023, to December 31, 2023). The primary outcome was the change in prevalence of hypertension, dyslipidemia, diabetes mellitus, systemic inflammation index, and insulin resistance index before, during, and after the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown. Additionally, multivariate linear or logistic regression analysis the association between changes in CCVRFs and the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown.</p></sec><sec><title>Results</title><p id="Par3">This study included 46,958 participants: 21,062 pre-pandemic, 18,164 during lockdown, and 7732 post-lockdown. Compared to pre- and post-lockdown periods, diabetes mellitus incidence significantly increased during lockdown. Systemic immune indicators (neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio [NLR], platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio [PLR], systemic immune-inflammation index [SII]) and insulin resistance markers (triglyceride-glucose index [TyG], TyG-body mass index [TyG-BMI]) also increased significantly. Subgroup analyses revealed more pronounced changes in CCVRFs among individuals over 60 during lockdown. Multivariate analysis showed a significant association between lockdown and CCVRFs, with adjusted odds ratios (OR) and <italic>&#x003b2;</italic> values (95% confidence intervals) as follows: diabetes mellitus 1.37 (1.28&#x02013;1.47), PLR 5.44 (4.77&#x02013;6.11), NLR 0.05 (0.04&#x02013;0.06), SII 5.28 (1.91&#x02013;8.65), TyG 0.03 (0.02&#x02013;0.05), and TyG-BMI 4.16 (3.47&#x02013;4.84).</p></sec><sec><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par4">In this cross-sectional study, the prevalence of diabetes mellitus, systemic inflammation index, and insulin resistance index increased during the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown, highlighting the importance of proactively managing CCVRFs during and after the pandemic lockdowns.</p></sec><sec><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12916-025-04193-w.</p></sec></abstract><kwd-group xml:lang="en"><title>Keywords</title><kwd>Cardio-cerebrovascular</kwd><kwd>Systemic inflammation index</kwd><kwd>Hypertension</kwd><kwd>Dyslipidemia</kwd><kwd>Diabetes mellitus</kwd><kwd>Insulin resistance</kwd><kwd>COVID-19 lockdown</kwd></kwd-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>Liaoning Provincial Department of Science and Technology supports high-quality development of China Medical University funding projects</institution></funding-source><award-id>Grant No. 2023020779-JH2/202</award-id></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>345 Talent Project of Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University</institution></funding-source><award-id>Grant No. M0681</award-id></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>Supporting the Liaoning Province Applied Basic Research Program</institution></funding-source><award-id>Grant No. 2022JH2/101500060</award-id></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="FundRef">http://dx.doi.org/10.13039/501100010018</institution-id><institution>Doctoral Start-up Foundation of Liaoning Province</institution></institution-wrap></funding-source><award-id>Grant No. 2023-BS-094</award-id></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>Postdoctoral Research Foundation of China (CN)</institution></funding-source><award-id>Grant No. 2023MD744270</award-id></award-group></funding-group><custom-meta-group><custom-meta><meta-name>issue-copyright-statement</meta-name><meta-value>&#x000a9; BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2025</meta-value></custom-meta></custom-meta-group></article-meta></front><body><sec id="Sec1"><title>Background</title><p id="Par18">The COVID-19 epidemic is a global health emergency. It was first discovered in Wuhan in December 2019 and quickly spread worldwide. Since January 2020, Chinese health officials have employed rigorous quarantine measures and comprehensive preventative strategies to limit the spread of COVID-19. These efforts included widespread isolation, social distancing, and community restrictions [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>], differing from those in Western countries; Chinese strict lockdown measures intermittently persisted for 3&#x000a0;years. While the lockdowns helped restrict the spread of COVID-19, they significantly altered residents&#x02019; lifestyles, such as physical activity, diets, and social interactions. During the pandemic, closures of gyms, reduced group gatherings, and increased social distancing limited people&#x02019;s physical activities and exercise [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>]. Due to the uncertainty of lockdowns, people became more adept at hoarding food, which altered dietary patterns [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>]. Lockdown also adversely affect mental health and stress; there is widespread fear and stress [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>]. Hypertension is highly sensitive to lifestyle changes. During the lockdown, increased sedentary behavior, stress, and poor dietary habits likely contributed to elevated blood pressure levels in many individuals. Similarly, diabetes mellitus risk factors, such as reduced physical activity and weight gain, were exacerbated during this period, potentially leading to higher prevalence and poorer management of the condition. Dyslipidemia, another critical cardio-cerebrovascular risk factors (CCVRFs), may have been influenced by changes in diet and exercise routines, while systemic inflammation, a key driver of atherosclerosis, could have been elevated due to stress and disrupted sleep patterns [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>].</p><p id="Par19">Hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and dyslipidemia are well-established and major CCVRFs. Hypertension exerts mechanical stress on the arterial walls, leading to endothelial dysfunction, vascular remodeling, and atherosclerosis. Additionally, hypertension is often associated with other metabolic abnormalities, such as insulin resistance and dyslipidemia, further exacerbating cardio-cerebrovascular disease risk [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>]. Chronic hyperglycemia promotes the formation of advanced glycation end products, oxidative stress, and systemic inflammation, all of which contribute to vascular damage and atherosclerosis [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>]. The inflammatory markers, derived from complete blood count (CBC), including the neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio (NLR), platelet/lymphocyte ratio (PLR), and systemic immune-inflammation index (SII), reflect the inflammatory status and predict cardio-cerebrovascular disease risk and prognosis [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>]. Additionally, insulin resistance (IR) has recently been found to play a crucial role in cardio-cerebrovascular disease development and is a predictive marker for cardio-cerebrovascular disease occurrence [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>]. The triglyceride-glucose (TyG) index is a robust surrogate marker for IR and prospective predicting marker for cardio-cerebrovascular disease [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>]. Combined with body mass index (BMI) as the TyG-BMI index, it enhances accuracy in assessing IR and cardio-cerebrovascular disease risk. Studies have confirmed its strong correlation with atherosclerosis, coronary artery disease, heart failure, acute coronary syndrome, and mortality [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>]. The specific impact of COVID-19 lockdown on CCVRFs remains underexplored. This study aims to assess the changes in CCVRFs before, during, and after the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown, with a focus on hypertension, diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia, IR, and systemic inflammation. By elucidating these relationships, we hope to inform strategies for managing CCVRFs during and after future public health crises.</p></sec><sec id="Sec2"><title>Methods</title><sec id="Sec3"><title>Study design</title><p id="Par20">We conducted a cross-sectional study using preventive health assessment data from the Health Management Center of Shengjing Hospital, China Medical University. In December 2019, the Chinese Centers for Disease Control and Prevention established a COVID-19 surveillance system. The COVID-19 pandemic lockdown intermittently persisted from January 1, 2020, to December 31, 2022. We utilized the time frame from January 1, 2017, to December 31, 2019, as the pre-pandemic period, and the period from January 1, 2023, to December 31, 2023, as the post-pandemic lockdown period. We analyze and compare the changes in CCVRFs among residents before, during, and after the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown. This study followed the Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology guidelines.</p></sec><sec id="Sec4"><title>Participants</title><p id="Par21">A total of 56,420 participants underwent preventive health assessment at the Health Management Center of Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University from January 1, 2017, to December 31, 2023. We excluded participants with no CBC data (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;8287), with incomplete demographic information (age and/or sex, <italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;285), and with incomplete physical examination data (BMI and/or blood pressure, <italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;890). In total, 46,958 participants were included in this study. Between January 1, 2020, and December 31, 2022, all participants had no history of COVID-19 infection and nucleic acid tested negative for the COVID-19 virus within a week before their medical examination. Similarly, from January 1, 2023, to December 31, 2023, participants showed no signs of acute COVID-19 or respiratory infections and nucleic acid tested negative within a week prior to their examination. The study population primarily consisted of secondary prevention patients. This study was approved by the Ethics Committee of Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University.</p></sec><sec id="Sec5"><title>Baseline variables</title><p id="Par22">Trained nurses collected participants&#x02019; anthropometric parameters, demographic information, and medical histories. Our covariates were chosen based on the availability of data, expert knowledge, and literature reviews. Height (m) and weight (kg) were measured using an ultrasonic height and weight meter (HNH-219; Omron, Kyoto, Japan). BMI was calculated as weight (kg) divided by height (m)^2. Blood pressure was measured in a sitting position with an automatic meter (HBP9020; Omron, Tokyo, Japan). Hypertension was characterized by having a diastolic blood pressure of&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;90&#x000a0;mmHg and/or a systolic blood pressure of&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;140&#x000a0;mmHg [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR21">21</xref>]. After fasting for 8&#x02013;12&#x000a0;h, blood samples were collected and tested within 2&#x000a0;h of venipuncture. Serum samples were processed by mixing blood with a coagulant and then centrifuging at 3500&#x000a0;rpm for 10&#x000a0;min to separate the serum. Fasting plasma glucose (FPG), triglycerides (TG), and total cholesterol were measured using assay kits for glucose (GLU-HK method), TG (PGO-PAP method), and cholesterol (CHOD-PAP method), respectively. All tests were conducted using an Autolas X-1 Series autoanalyzer (Autobio, Zhengzhou, China). Dyslipidemia was defined as total cholesterol&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;5.72&#x000a0;mmol/L and/or triglyceride&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;1.7&#x000a0;mmol/L [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR22">22</xref>]. Diabetes mellitus was defined on the basis of glycated hemoglobin&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;6.5% and/or FPG&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;7.0&#x000a0;mmol/L [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>]. TyG index is computed using the formula: TyG index&#x02009;=&#x02009;ln [fasting TG (mg/dL)&#x02009;&#x000d7;&#x02009;FPG (mg/dL)/2] and TYG-BMI&#x02009;=&#x02009;ln [fasting TG (mg/dL)&#x02009;&#x000d7;&#x02009;FPG (mg/dL)/2]&#x02009;&#x000d7;&#x02009;BMI [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec6"><title>Systemic inflammation index</title><p id="Par23">White blood cell, platelet, neutrophil, and lymphocyte counts were measured using HXL-series analyzers (Sysmex, Tokyo, Japan). Most commonly used systemic inflammation markers were NLR, PLR, and SII based on peripheral blood cell count in the scientific literature [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR26">26</xref>]. The formulas used were as follows: NLR&#x02009;=&#x02009;neutrophils/lymphocytes, PLR&#x02009;=&#x02009;platelets/lymphocytes, and SII&#x02009;=&#x02009;(neutrophils&#x02009;&#x000d7;&#x02009;platelets)/lymphocytes.</p></sec><sec id="Sec7"><title>Sub-cohort analysis</title><p id="Par24">To address potential selection bias and better evaluate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown on CCVRFs, we conducted a sub-cohort analysis focusing on participants who underwent physical examinations in all three periods: before (January 1, 2017, to December 31, 2019), during (January 1, 2020, to December 31, 2022), and after (January 1, 2023, to December 31, 2023) the pandemic lockdown. A total of 955 participants met these criteria and were included in the sub-cohort analysis. This longitudinal approach allowed us to track changes within the same individuals over time, minimizing inter-individual variability and providing stronger evidence for the impact of the pandemic lockdown on CCVRFs. By comparing these results with the original cross-sectional analysis, we aimed to validate our findings and address potential selection bias.</p></sec><sec id="Sec8"><title>Statistical analysis</title><p id="Par25">The demographic characteristics of the participants were summarized through descriptive statistics. Baseline characteristics were presented as frequencies (%) for categorical data and as means&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;standard deviation (SD) for normally distributed continuous data. To identify group differences, Student&#x02019;s <italic>t</italic>-test was employed for continuous variables, while the x<sup>2</sup> test was used for categorical variables. The ANOVA was utilized to compare changes in CCVRFs before, during, and after the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown. Stratified analyses were conducted to investigate heterogeneity in the CCVRFs by age (&#x02264;&#x02009;60 vs.&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;60) and sex (male vs. female) across the three time periods. For outcomes related to the prevalence of hypertension, dyslipidemia, and diabetes mellitus, multivariate logistic regression was applied to analyze the association between the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown and these CCVRFs. For outcomes based on participants (NLR, PLR, SII, TyG, and TyG-BMI), multivariate linear regression was used. Three models were considered: model 1 without adjustment for covariates, model 2 adjusted for age and sex, and model 3 adjusted for all covariates. The adjusted <italic>&#x003b2;</italic> or odds ratio (OR) was calculated as the exponential of the model coefficients. Statistical analyses were performed using R version 4.0.3, adopting two-sided tests with a significance threshold of 0.05.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec9"><title>Results</title><sec id="Sec10"><title>Participant characteristics</title><p id="Par26">In this study, a total of 46,958 participants were included for analysis. The average age was 51.18&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;12.96&#x000a0;years, with 67.93% being male. The mean BMI was 25.23&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;3.31&#x000a0;kg/m<sup>2</sup>. We also analyzed blood pressure, FPG, glycated hemoglobin, total cholesterol, TG, and blood cell indices, as detailed in Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref>.
<table-wrap id="Tab1"><label>Table&#x000a0;1</label><caption><p>The baseline characteristics of participants</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left"/><th align="left">Before COVID-19 pandemic lockdown</th><th align="left">During COVID-19 pandemic lockdown</th><th align="left">After COVID-19 pandemic lockdown</th><th align="left">Total</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">Years</td><td align="left">2017&#x02013;2019</td><td align="left">2020&#x02013;2022</td><td align="left">2023</td><td align="left">2017&#x02013;2023</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><italic>N</italic></td><td align="left">21,062</td><td align="left">18,164</td><td align="left">7732</td><td align="left">46,958</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Age (years)</td><td align="left">53.50&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;12.66</td><td align="left">50.38&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;12.88</td><td align="left">46.72&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;12.58</td><td align="left">51.18&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;12.96</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5">Sex, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Men</td><td align="left">13,927 (66.12%)</td><td align="left">12,853 (70.76%)</td><td align="left">5118 (66.19%)</td><td align="left">31,898 (67.93%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Women</td><td align="left">7135 (33.88%)</td><td align="left">5311 (29.24%)</td><td align="left">2614 (33.81%)</td><td align="left">15,060 (32.07%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Systolic blood pressure (mmHg)</td><td align="left">129.29&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;17.86</td><td align="left">129.84&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;17.71</td><td align="left">127.40&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;17.17</td><td align="left">129.19&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;17.71</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Diastolic blood pressure (mmHg)</td><td align="left">78.15&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.67</td><td align="left">77.59&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.70</td><td align="left">76.81&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.64</td><td align="left">77.72&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.69</td></tr><tr><td align="left">BMI (kg/m<sup>2</sup>)</td><td align="left">25.02&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;3.24</td><td align="left">25.44&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;3.33</td><td align="left">25.30&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;3.45</td><td align="left">25.23&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;3.31</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Glycated hemoglobin (%)</td><td align="left">5.54&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.67</td><td align="left">5.60&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.66</td><td align="left">5.47&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.63</td><td align="left">5.55&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.66</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Glucose fasting (mmol/L)</td><td align="left">5.55&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.03</td><td align="left">5.69&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.06</td><td align="left">5.46&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.99</td><td align="left">5.59&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.04</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Total cholesterol (mmol/L)</td><td align="left">5.03&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.86</td><td align="left">5.04&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.88</td><td align="left">4.90&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.83</td><td align="left">5.01&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.86</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Triglycerides (mmol/L)</td><td align="left">1.70&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.11</td><td align="left">1.71&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.13</td><td align="left">1.62&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.09</td><td align="left">1.69&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.12</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Leukocyte (10<sup>9</sup>/L)</td><td align="left">6.37&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.43</td><td align="left">6.23&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.40</td><td align="left">6.20&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.40</td><td align="left">6.29&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.41</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Neutrophil (10<sup>9</sup>/L)</td><td align="left">3.55&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.04</td><td align="left">3.50&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.02</td><td align="left">3.47&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.03</td><td align="left">3.52&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.03</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Lymphocyte (10<sup>9</sup>/L)</td><td align="left">2.16&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.55</td><td align="left">2.07&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.53</td><td align="left">2.08&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.53</td><td align="left">2.11&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.54</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Hemoglobin (g/L)</td><td align="left">151.42&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;14.56</td><td align="left">150.44&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;13.99</td><td align="left">146.84&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;14.17</td><td align="left">150.28&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;14.36</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Platelet (10<sup>9</sup>/L)</td><td align="left">239.19&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;49.46</td><td align="left">238.20&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;49.68</td><td align="left">237.96&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;48.52</td><td align="left">238.60&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;49.39</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>Categorical data presented as frequencies (%) and continuous data presented as means&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;SD</p><p><italic>BMI</italic> body mass index, <italic>SD</italic> standard deviation</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p></sec><sec id="Sec11"><title>Higher prevalence of CCVRFs during the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown</title><p id="Par27">Compared to the period before the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown, the study found that during the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown, there was a significant increase in the prevalence of diabetes mellitus among the surveyed population (<italic>p</italic> values&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001). In contrast, compared to the during COVID-19 pandemic lockdown period, the prevalence of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and dyslipidemia significantly decreased after the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown (<italic>p</italic> values&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001). The analysis of systemic inflammatory markers revealed that compared to before COVID-19 pandemic lockdown, overall population indices including PLR, NLR, and SII significantly increased during the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown period. However, after COVID-19 pandemic lockdown period, apart from the PLR index, the overall population&#x02019;s NLR and SII index decreased. Further analysis of insulin resistance indicators, TyG and TyG-BMI, revealed that these indices increased during the pandemic lockdown compared to the period before the pandemic. However, after the pandemic lockdown, both TyG and TyG-BMI indicators showed a significant decline. These findings suggested that CCVRFs in the population markedly increased during the pandemic lockdown period. For more details, refer to Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref>.
<table-wrap id="Tab2"><label>Table&#x000a0;2</label><caption><p>Annual prevalence of hypertension, dyslipidemia, diabetes mellitus, systemic inflammation index, and insulin resistance index, 2017&#x02013;2023</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left"/><th align="left" colspan="3">(1) Before COVID-19 pandemic lockdown</th><th align="left"><italic>p</italic> value</th><th align="left" colspan="3">(2) During COVID-19 pandemic lockdown</th><th align="left"><italic>p</italic> value</th><th align="left">(3) After COVID-19 pandemic lockdown</th><th align="left">(2) vs. (1)</th><th align="left">(3) vs. (2)</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">Years</td><td align="left">2017</td><td align="left">2018</td><td align="left">2019</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">2020</td><td align="left">2021</td><td align="left">2022</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">2023</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Hypertension, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.636</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;No</td><td align="left">4932 (65.52%)</td><td align="left">4260 (69.49%)</td><td align="left">5187 (70.06%)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">3331 (64.91%)</td><td align="left">4016 (67.53%)</td><td align="left">5013 (70.76%)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">5622 (72.71%)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Yes</td><td align="left">2596 (34.48%)</td><td align="left">1870 (30.51%)</td><td align="left">2217 (29.94%)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">1801 (35.09%)</td><td align="left">1931 (32.47%)</td><td align="left">2072 (29.24%)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">2110 (27.29%)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Dyslipidemia, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.040</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;No</td><td align="left">3832 (50.90%)</td><td align="left">3416 (55.73%)</td><td align="left">3874 (52.32%)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">2621 (51.07%)</td><td align="left">2895 (48.68%)</td><td align="left">3887 (54.86%)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">4443 (57.46%)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Yes</td><td align="left">3696 (49.10%)</td><td align="left">2714 (44.27%)</td><td align="left">3530 (47.68%)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">2511 (48.93%)</td><td align="left">3052 (51.32%)</td><td align="left">3198 (45.14%)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">3289 (42.54%)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Diabetes mellitus, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.197</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;No</td><td align="left">6817 (90.56%)</td><td align="left">5555 (90.62%)</td><td align="left">6650 (89.82%)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">4510 (87.88%)</td><td align="left">5273 (88.67%)</td><td align="left">6383 (90.09%)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">7125 (92.15%)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Yes</td><td align="left">711 (9.44%)</td><td align="left">575 (9.38%)</td><td align="left">754 (10.18%)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">622 (12.12%)</td><td align="left">674 (11.33%)</td><td align="left">702 (9.91%)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">607 (7.85%)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">PLR</td><td align="left">115.01&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;34.20</td><td align="left">117.16&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;33.69</td><td align="left">116.93&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;33.93</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left">120.49&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;34.76</td><td align="left">120.13&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;34.54</td><td align="left">121.47&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;34.68</td><td align="left">0.056</td><td align="left">120.32&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;34.78</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left">0.161</td></tr><tr><td align="left">NLR</td><td align="left">1.72&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.59</td><td align="left">1.73&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.60</td><td align="left">1.72&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.60</td><td align="left">0.095</td><td align="left">1.78&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.61</td><td align="left">1.77&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.61</td><td align="left">1.75&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.59</td><td align="left">0.012</td><td align="left">1.74&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.60</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left">0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">SII</td><td align="left">411.44&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;167.83</td><td align="left">412.92&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;167.54</td><td align="left">411.99&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;167.40</td><td align="left">0.749</td><td align="left">421.88&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;168.59</td><td align="left">419.95&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;168.54</td><td align="left">419.78&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;170.44</td><td align="left">0.538</td><td align="left">414.68&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;170.11</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left">0.002</td></tr><tr><td align="left">TyG</td><td align="left">8.77&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.63</td><td align="left">8.71&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.63</td><td align="left">8.73&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.64</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left">8.76&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.63</td><td align="left">8.82&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.64</td><td align="left">8.73&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.65</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left">8.67&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.65</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">TyG-BMI</td><td align="left">218.61&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;37.07</td><td align="left">219.36&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;37.90</td><td align="left">220.61&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;37.80</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left">221.94&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;37.28</td><td align="left">226.25&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;38.32</td><td align="left">223.23&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;39.86</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left">220.19&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;39.81</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>Categorical data presented as frequencies (%) and continuous data presented as means&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;SD</p><p><italic>NLR</italic> neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio, <italic>PLR</italic> platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio, <italic>SII</italic> systemic immune-inflammation index, <italic>TyG</italic> triglyceride and glucose index, <italic>BMI</italic> body mass index, <italic>SD</italic> standard deviation</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p></sec><sec id="Sec12"><title>Heterogeneity in the CCVRFs by age and sex</title><p id="Par28">During the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown, the prevalence of hypertension and diabetes mellitus in those over 60 significantly increased; notably, the incidence of hypertension has not returned to pre-lockdown levels, remaining higher after the pandemic lockdown. The subgroup analysis for dyslipidemia reveals that during the pandemic lockdown, the increase in incidence was primarily observed in younger individuals, while there was no significant increase in the incidence of dyslipidemia among the elderly (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>A&#x02013;C). During the pandemic lockdown, the changes in the incidence rates of these conditions were similar for both genders, with no significant gender differences. After the pandemic lockdown, the incidence rates of diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and dyslipidemia decreased significantly for both males and females (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>A&#x02013;C).<fig id="Fig1"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;1</label><caption><p>Heterogeneity prevalence of diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and dyslipidemia by age and sex, 2017&#x02013;2023. <bold>A</bold> Heterogeneity in the diabetes mellitus prevalence change in participants from 2017 to 2023; <bold>B</bold>&#x000a0;Heterogeneity in the hypertension prevalence change in participants from 2017 to 2023; <bold>C</bold>&#x000a0;Heterogeneity in the dyslipidemia prevalence change in participants from 2017 to 2023</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4193_Fig1_HTML" id="MO1"/></fig></p><p id="Par29">The gender subgroup analysis shows that inflammation indicators increased significantly for both males and females during the pandemic lockdown. For post-pandemic lockdown period, inflammation indicators decreased in males (except for PLR), while there was no significant reduction in inflammation indicators for females. Age subgroup analysis suggests that inflammatory markers show more pronounced changes in individuals over the age of 60 before, during, and after pandemic lockdown. In contrast, the changes in inflammatory markers for individuals under 60 are less pronounced compared to those in the elder group, as shown in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>A&#x02013;C. The subgroup analysis indicates that insulin resistance indicators are significantly higher in males compared to females. During the pandemic lockdown, the indicators for females did not show significant changes, but they decreased significantly after the pandemic lockdown (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>D, E).<fig id="Fig2"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;2</label><caption><p>Heterogeneity systemic inflammation index ratio, TyG, and TyG-BMI by age and sex, 2017&#x02013;2023. <bold>A</bold> Heterogeneity in the NLR ratio change in participants from 2017 to 2023; <bold>B</bold>&#x000a0;Heterogeneity in the PLR ratio change in participants from 2017 to 2023; <bold>C</bold>&#x000a0;Heterogeneity in the SII ratio change in participants from 2017 to 2023; <bold>D</bold>&#x000a0;Heterogeneity in the TyG ratio change in participants from 2017 to 2023; <bold>E</bold>&#x000a0;Heterogeneity in the TyG-BMI ratio change in participants from 2017 to 2023. NLR, neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio; PLR, platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio; SII, systemic immune-inflammation index; TyG, triglyceride and glucose index; BMI, body mass index</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4193_Fig2_HTML" id="MO2"/></fig></p></sec><sec id="Sec13"><title>The association of CCVRFs change and COVID-19 pandemic lockdown</title><p id="Par30">General linear regression analysis showed that a higher systemic inflammation index was associated with COVID-19 pandemic lockdown. The <italic>&#x003b2;</italic> value and 95% CI for PLR, NLR, and SII were 4.44 (3.76&#x02013;5.12), 0.04 (0.03&#x02013;0.05), and 8.36 (5.02&#x02013;11.70), respectively. After adjusting for age and sex, the results were consistent. Further, multivariate general linear regression analysis also revealed that COVID-19 was associated with an increased systemic inflammation index after adjusted for age, sex, BMI, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and dyslipidemia. Similarly, this study found a significant association between COVID-19 pandemic lockdown and increased incidence of diabetes mellitus. Even after adjusting for all covariates except the outcomes of interest in the multivariate analysis, the results remained significant. Finally, through our analysis, we discovered a significant association between COVID-19 pandemic lockdown and the increase in IR indicators (TyG and TyG-BMI). The findings remained stable and consistent even after adjusting for various covariates in the multivariate analysis, as shown in Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab3" ref-type="table">3</xref>. Based on these observations, it is evident that COVID-19 pandemic lockdown is closely associated with an elevation in CCVRFs.
<table-wrap id="Tab3"><label>Table&#x000a0;3</label><caption><p>Association of CCVRFs change and COVID-19 pandemic lockdown via multivariate analysis</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left" rowspan="2"/><th align="left" colspan="2">Model<sup>1</sup></th><th align="left" colspan="2">Model<sup>2</sup></th><th align="left" colspan="2">Model<sup>3</sup></th></tr><tr><th align="left" colspan="2">OR, 95% CI</th><th align="left" colspan="2">Adjusted OR, 95% CI</th><th align="left" colspan="2">Adjusted OR, 95% CI</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">Diabetes mellitus</td><td align="left">1.15</td><td align="left">(1.08, 1.23)</td><td align="left">1.36</td><td align="left">(1.27, 1.46)</td><td align="left">1.37<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">(1.28, 1.47)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Hypertension</td><td align="left">1.01</td><td align="left">(0.97, 1.05)</td><td align="left">1.15</td><td align="left">(1.10, 1.21)</td><td align="left">1.09<sup>b</sup></td><td align="left">(1.04, 1.15)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Dyslipidemia</td><td align="left">1.04</td><td align="left">(1.00, 1.08)</td><td align="left">1.06</td><td align="left">(1.02, 1.11)</td><td align="left">1.04<sup>c</sup></td><td align="left">(0.99, 1.08)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"/><td align="left" colspan="2"><italic>&#x003b2;</italic>, 95% CI</td><td align="left" colspan="2">Adjusted <italic>&#x003b2;</italic>, 95% CI</td><td align="left" colspan="2">Adjusted <italic>&#x003b2;</italic>, 95% CI</td></tr><tr><td align="left">PLR</td><td align="left">4.44</td><td align="left">(3.76, 5.12)</td><td align="left">4.80</td><td align="left">(4.13, 5.46)</td><td align="left">5.44<sup>d</sup></td><td align="left">(4.77, 6.11)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">NLR</td><td align="left">0.04</td><td align="left">(0.03, 0.05)</td><td align="left">0.05</td><td align="left">(0.04, 0.06)</td><td align="left">0.05<sup>d</sup></td><td align="left">(0.04, 0.06)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">SII</td><td align="left">8.36</td><td align="left">(5.02, 11.70)</td><td align="left">6.64</td><td align="left">(3.28, 9.99)</td><td align="left">5.28<sup>d</sup></td><td align="left">(1.91, 8.65)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"/><td align="left" colspan="2"><italic>&#x003b2;</italic>, 95% CI</td><td align="left" colspan="2">Adjusted <italic>&#x003b2;</italic>, 95% CI</td><td align="left" colspan="2">Adjusted <italic>&#x003b2;</italic>, 95% CI</td></tr><tr><td align="left">TyG</td><td align="left">0.03</td><td align="left">(0.02, 0.04)</td><td align="left">0.03</td><td align="left">(0.02, 0.04)</td><td align="left">0.03<sup>e</sup></td><td align="left">(0.02, 0.05)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">TyG-BMI</td><td align="left">4.33</td><td align="left">(3.56, 5.09)</td><td align="left">3.75</td><td align="left">(3.04, 4.46)</td><td align="left">4.16<sup>e</sup></td><td align="left">(3.47, 4.84)</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>Model<sup>1</sup>: adjusted for no covariate</p><p>Model<sup>2</sup>: adjusted for age and sex</p><p>Model<sup>3a</sup>: adjusted for age, sex, BMI, hypertension, dyslipidemia, leukocyte, and platelet</p><p>Model<sup>3b</sup>: adjusted for age, sex, BMI, diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia, leukocyte, and platelet</p><p>Model<sup>3c</sup>: adjusted for age, sex, BMI, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, leukocyte, and platelet</p><p>Model<sup>3d</sup>: adjusted for age, sex, BMI, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and dyslipidemia</p><p>Model<sup>3e</sup>: adjusted for age, sex, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, leukocyte, and platelet</p><p><italic>NLR</italic>, neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio; <italic>PLR</italic>, platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio; <italic>SII</italic>, systemic immune-inflammation index; <italic>TyG</italic>, triglyceride and glucose index; <italic>BMI</italic>, body mass index</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p></sec><sec id="Sec14"><title>Sub-cohort analysis results</title><p id="Par31">To address potential selection bias and better assess the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown on CCVRFs, we conducted a secondary analysis on a longitudinal follow-up cohort. The sub-cohort analysis of 955 participants who underwent preventive health assessment in all three periods revealed consistent trends with the primary analysis. Specifically, there was a significant increase in the prevalence of diabetes mellitus, systemic inflammation indices (PLR, NLR, SII), and TyG-BMI during the pandemic lockdown compared to the pre-pandemic period, as shown in Additional file 1: Table S1. General linear regression analysis demonstrated that the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown was significantly associated with higher systemic inflammation indices (PLR and NLR), consistent with the primary results. Similarly, the lockdown was associated with an increased incidence of diabetes mellitus and elevated TyG-BMI, as shown in Additional file 2: Table S2. The stability and consistency of these findings in the sub-cohort further support the conclusion that the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown significantly contributed to the elevation of CCVRFs.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec15"><title>Discussion</title><p id="Par32">This study found a significant increase in the prevalence of diabetes mellitus among participants during the COVID-19 lockdown compared to the pre-pandemic period. Additionally, inflammatory markers such as PLR, NLR, and SII increased significantly, as did insulin resistance indicators, including TyG and TyG-BMI. Multivariate regression analysis revealed a close association between the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown and these CCVRFs (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001). These findings were consistent with previous study, which reported excess mortality and adverse outcomes among individuals with cardiovascular diseases during the pandemic, likely due to disruptions in healthcare access and lifestyle changes induced by lockdown measures [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR27">27</xref>]. The results suggested that strict pandemic control measures might increase the risk of cardio-cerebrovascular disease and adverse outcomes among the population. Addressing how to effectively manage infectious disease pandemics and formulate appropriate lockdown policies has become a complex public health challenge.</p><p id="Par33">Systemic inflammation, diabetes mellitus prevalence, and insulin resistance may be closely related to biological, environmental, psychological, and social factors [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR28">28</xref>]. The COVID-19 lockdown led to a sustained reduction in physical activity [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR29">29</xref>]. Research has demonstrated a strong correlation between low physical activity and increased anabolic resistance [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>], as well as elevated levels of C-reactive protein and pro-inflammatory cytokines in healthy individuals [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR31">31</xref>]. Skeletal muscle functions as an endocrine organ, releasing cytokines and myokines during muscle contraction, which can systematically reduce inflammation [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR32">32</xref>]. Moreover, exercise plays a crucial role in improving insulin sensitivity: first, exercise increases capillary perfusion; second, physical activity enhances the transport of glucose from the interstitial space to muscle membranes and t-tubules and promotes glucose transporter 4 translocation to the plasma membrane, leading to increased muscle glucose uptake [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR33">33</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR34">34</xref>]. Studies on animal models have shown that aerobic exercise improves insulin sensitivity, with trained animals exhibiting lower insulin resistance compared to sedentary ones [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR35">35</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR36">36</xref>]. Therefore, isolation and the lack of exercise during lockdowns likely contributed to the increase in systemic inflammation and insulin resistance among Chinese residents.</p><p id="Par34">During the pandemic lockdown, Chinese residents experienced notable changes in diet pattern. Due to limited food availability, fresh and minimally processed foods decreased in the diet, while instant meals, sugary snacks, and fast food became more common [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR37">37</xref>]. Ultra-processed foods with high glycemic loads increased oxidative stress, activating inflammatory genes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR38">38</xref>]. Orally absorbed advanced glycation and lipoxidation end products led to obesity and inflammation [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR39">39</xref>]. Deficits in micronutrients such as zinc, magnesium, and omega-3 fatty acids were also associated with increased systemic inflammation and may slow inflammation resolution [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR40">40</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR42">42</xref>]. Experimental evidence supported that ultra-processed foods were, on average, more hyperglycemic than minimally and moderately processed foods [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR43">43</xref>]. Hyperglycemia increased the risk of cardio-cerebrovascular disease by promoting weight gain, inflammation, oxidative stress, and endothelial dysfunction [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR44">44</xref>].</p><p id="Par35">There was evidence suggesting that lockdowns might have adverse effects on individuals&#x02019; mental health [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>]. Compared to the pre-pandemic period, people&#x02019;s mental health, encompassing anxiety, depression, and general distress, worsened during the pandemic [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR45">45</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR46">46</xref>]. Although there was a slight improvement in mental health following the easing of social restrictions after the lockdown, it did not return to the levels seen before the COVID-19 pandemic [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR47">47</xref>]. The combination of disease and pandemic lockdowns triggered panic and anxiety among Chinese residents. Chronic stress could cause physiological changes, reducing glucocorticoid effectiveness in controlling inflammation due to prolonged high cortisol levels, resulting in chronic systemic inflammation and poor health [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR48">48</xref>]. Long-term stressors can lead to glucocorticoid receptor resistance, which disrupts the proper regulation of inflammation. In some individuals, depression was linked with increased levels of circulating pro-inflammatory cytokines, chemokines, and cell adhesion molecules, as well as prostaglandins and other derivatives of arachidonic acid [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR49">49</xref>]. Our study found that older adults were more prone to elevated inflammatory markers during the pandemic than younger individuals. Cellular senescence, common in older adults, contributed to systemic inflammation by upregulating pro-inflammatory cytokines, chemokines, and other pro-inflammatory chemicals. Senescence could be triggered by endogenous factors like deoxyribonucleic acid damage, epigenomic alterations, and oxidative stress [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR50">50</xref>]. Non-endogenous causes included dietary imbalances [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR51">51</xref>] and societal and cultural shifts [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR52">52</xref>]. These factors likely increase the vulnerability of older adults to inflammatory markers during a pandemic.</p><p id="Par36">The COVID-19 pandemic and associated lockdowns highlighted the critical role of digital health and telemedicine in maintaining healthcare access and continuity, particularly for individuals with cardio-cerebrovascular disease. During the lockdown periods, telemedicine emerged as a vital tool for remote patient monitoring, virtual consultations, and the delivery of essential healthcare services, reducing the need for in-person visits and minimizing the risk of virus transmission [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR53">53</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR54">54</xref>]. Furthermore, digital health technologies, including mobile health apps and wearable devices, have enabled real-time monitoring of CCVRFs such as blood pressure, heart rate, and physical activity, empowering patients to take a more active role in managing their health [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR55">55</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR56">56</xref>]. Moving forward, integrating digital health and telemedicine into public health frameworks could enhance healthcare resilience during future crises and improve the management of chronic diseases in both pandemic and non-pandemic settings.</p><sec id="Sec16"><title>Limitations</title><p id="Par37">Our study focused exclusively on Chinese individuals, making our findings specific to China and limiting the generalizability of our findings. Owing to variations in social isolation, home quarantine, and school closure policies between China and other regions, our findings cannot be considered indicative of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown in other parts of the world. Furthermore, although we observed a rise in the prevalence of diabetes mellitus, systemic inflammation indices, and insulin resistance indices among Chinese residents during the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown, we did not investigate adverse health consequences. Finally, due to the retrospective nature of the data, we were unable to collect detailed information on participants&#x02019; underlying medical conditions or family history, which could significantly influence CCVRFs. Meanwhile, lifestyle factors such as smoking status, alcohol consumption, educational level, socioeconomic status, and marital status were not systematically recorded in the dataset. Socioeconomic status may influence awareness of CCVRFs [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR57">57</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR58">58</xref>], and their absence may limit the generalizability of our findings. Future studies should aim to incorporate these variables to provide a more comprehensive assessment of cardio-cerebrovascular disease risk.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec17"><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par38">This cross-sectional study found that CCVRFs, including the prevalence of diabetes mellitus, systemic inflammation indices, and insulin resistance indices, increased in Chinese residents during the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown. Our findings indicate that when addressing large-scale outbreaks of infectious diseases, public health policies should account for their impact on CCVRFs among residents. To mitigate the adverse effects of lockdown measures, practical strategies such as telemedicine and digital health services should be implemented to ensure continuous access to healthcare and remote monitoring of CCVRFs. Additionally, public health campaigns promoting physical activity, healthy diets, and mental well-being during lockdowns are essential. Future policy frameworks should prioritize integrating these strategies into pandemic preparedness plans to prevent an increase in CCVRFs resulting from epidemic prevention and control measures.</p></sec><sec id="Sec18" sec-type="supplementary-material"><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>
<supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM1"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4193_MOESM1_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Additional file 1: Table S1 Trends in cardio-cerebrovascular risk factors: longitudinal analysis (2017&#x02013;2023).</p></caption></media></supplementary-material><supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM2"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4193_MOESM2_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Additional file 2: Table S2 COVID-19 lockdown impact on cardio-cerebrovascular risk: multivariate analysis.</p></caption></media></supplementary-material></p></sec></body><back><glossary><title>Abbreviations</title><def-list><def-item><term>CCVRFs</term><def><p id="Par5">Cardio-cerebrovascular risk factors</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CBC</term><def><p id="Par6">Complete blood count</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>NLR</term><def><p id="Par7">Neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PLR</term><def><p id="Par8">Platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>SII</term><def><p id="Par9">Systemic immune-inflammation</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>IR</term><def><p id="Par10">Insulin resistance</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>TyG</term><def><p id="Par11">Triglyceride-glucose</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>BMI</term><def><p id="Par12">Body mass index</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>OR</term><def><p id="Par13">Odds ratios</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>FPG</term><def><p id="Par14">Fasting plasma glucose</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>TG</term><def><p id="Par15">Triglycerides</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>SD</term><def><p id="Par16">Standard deviation</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CIs</term><def><p id="Par17">Confidence intervals</p></def></def-item></def-list></glossary><fn-group><fn><p>Zhiyong Yang and Dongmei Pei contributed equally as corresponding authors to this work.</p></fn><fn><p><bold>Publisher&#x02019;s Note</bold></p><p>Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.</p></fn><fn><p>Jinjing Lu, Yanyan Shen, and Xiaoying Liu contributed equally to this work and are joint first authors.</p></fn></fn-group><ack><title>Acknowledgements</title><p>Not applicable.</p></ack><notes notes-type="author-contribution"><title>Authors&#x02019; contributions</title><p>Concept and design: WWD, DMP, and ZYY. Acquisition, analysis, or interpretation of data: All authors. Drafting of the manuscript: JJL, YYS, XYL, and YQM. Critical revision of the manuscript for important intellectual content:WWD, ZYY, XYL, and DMP. Statistical analysis: JJL and WWD. Obtained funding: JJL, DMP, and WWD. Administrative, technical, or material support: XYL and LJ. Supervision: WWD, ZYY, and DMP. WWD, ZYY, and DMP had full access to all the data in the study and take responsibility for the integrity of the data and the accuracy of the data analysis. All authors read and approved the final manuscript. YYS and XYL contributed equally as co-first authors. ZYY and DMP contributed equally as co-corresponding authors.</p></notes><notes notes-type="funding-information"><title>Funding</title><p>Doctoral Start-up Foundation of Liaoning Province (Grant No. 2023-BS-094). Postdoctoral Research Foundation of China (CN) (Grant No. 2023MD744270). Liaoning Provincial Department of Science and Technology supports high-quality development of China Medical University funding projects (Grant No. 2023020779-JH2/202). 345 Talent Project of Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University (Grant No. M0681). Supporting the Liaoning Province Applied Basic Research Program (Grant No. 2022JH2/101500060).</p></notes><notes notes-type="data-availability"><title>Data availability</title><p>The data that support the findings of this study are available on request from the corresponding author.</p></notes><notes><title>Declarations</title><notes id="FPar1"><title>Ethics approval and consent to participate</title><p id="Par39">The requirement of written consent for this study was waived due to the register data being pseudonymized before delivery to our research group. This study was conducted in accordance with the ethical standards of the Declaration of Helsinki and was approved by the Ethics Committee of Shengjing Hospital (Approval No.: 2025PS1065K). Participants and caretakers are informed verbally and could decline participation.</p></notes><notes id="FPar2"><title>Consent for publication</title><p id="Par40">Not applicable.</p></notes><notes id="FPar3" notes-type="COI-statement"><title>Competing interests</title><p id="Par41">The authors declare no competing interests.</p></notes></notes><ref-list id="Bib1"><title>References</title><ref id="CR1"><label>1.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR1" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Pathogenicity and transmissibility of 2019-nCoV-a quick overview and comparison with other emerging viruses</article-title><source>Microbes Infect</source><year>2020</year><volume>22</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>69</fpage><lpage>71</lpage><?supplied-pmid 32032682?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32032682</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR1" publication-type="journal">Chen J. Pathogenicity and transmissibility of 2019-nCoV-a quick overview and comparison with other emerging viruses. Microbes Infect. 2020;22(2):69&#x02013;71.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32032682</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR2"><label>2.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR2" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>Q</given-names></name><name><surname>Guan</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhou</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Tong</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Early transmission dynamics in Wuhan, China, of novel coronavirus-infected pneumonia</article-title><source>N Engl J Med</source><year>2020</year><volume>382</volume><issue>13</issue><fpage>1199</fpage><lpage>1207</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31995857?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31995857</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR2" publication-type="journal">Li Q, Guan X, Wu P, Wang X, Zhou L, Tong Y, et al. Early transmission dynamics in Wuhan, China, of novel coronavirus-infected pneumonia. N Engl J Med. 2020;382(13):1199&#x02013;207.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31995857</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR3"><label>3.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR3" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Planin&#x00161;ec</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Matejek</surname><given-names>&#x0010c;</given-names></name><name><surname>Pi&#x00161;ot</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Pi&#x00161;ot</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>&#x00160;imuni&#x0010d;</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Consequences of COVID-19 lockdown restrictions on children physical activity-a Slovenian study</article-title><source>Front Public Health</source><year>2022</year><volume>10</volume><fpage>843448</fpage><?supplied-pmid 35359773?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35359773</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR3" publication-type="journal">Planin&#x00161;ec J, Matejek &#x0010c;, Pi&#x00161;ot S, Pi&#x00161;ot R, &#x00160;imuni&#x0010d; B. Consequences of COVID-19 lockdown restrictions on children physical activity-a Slovenian study. Front Public Health. 2022;10:843448.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35359773</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR4"><label>4.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR4" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Shanmugam</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Di Ciaula</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Di Palo</surname><given-names>DM</given-names></name><name><surname>Molina-Molina</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Garruti</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Faienza</surname><given-names>MF</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Multiplying effects of COVID-19 lockdown on metabolic risk and fatty liver</article-title><source>Eur J Clin Invest</source><year>2021</year><volume>51</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>e13597</fpage><?supplied-pmid 34032283?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34032283</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR4" publication-type="journal">Shanmugam H, Di Ciaula A, Di Palo DM, Molina-Molina E, Garruti G, Faienza MF, et al. Multiplying effects of COVID-19 lockdown on metabolic risk and fatty liver. Eur J Clin Invest. 2021;51(7):e13597.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34032283</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR5"><label>5.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR5" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Abbas</surname><given-names>AM</given-names></name><name><surname>Kamel</surname><given-names>MM</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Dietary habits in adults during quarantine in the context of COVID-19 pandemic</article-title><source>Obes Med</source><year>2020</year><volume>19</volume><fpage>100254</fpage><?supplied-pmid 32427142?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32427142</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR5" publication-type="journal">Abbas AM, Kamel MM. Dietary habits in adults during quarantine in the context of COVID-19 pandemic. Obes Med. 2020;19:100254.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32427142</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR6"><label>6.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR6" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Brooks</surname><given-names>SK</given-names></name><name><surname>Webster</surname><given-names>RK</given-names></name><name><surname>Smith</surname><given-names>LE</given-names></name><name><surname>Woodland</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Wessely</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Greenberg</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The psychological impact of quarantine and how to reduce it: rapid review of the evidence</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2020</year><volume>395</volume><issue>10227</issue><fpage>912</fpage><lpage>920</lpage><?supplied-pmid 32112714?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32112714</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR6" publication-type="journal">Brooks SK, Webster RK, Smith LE, Woodland L, Wessely S, Greenberg N, et al. The psychological impact of quarantine and how to reduce it: rapid review of the evidence. Lancet. 2020;395(10227):912&#x02013;20.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32112714</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR7"><label>7.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR7" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zhao</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Xie</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Qi</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Cardiovascular risk assessment: a global perspective</article-title><source>Nat Rev Cardiol</source><year>2015</year><volume>12</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>301</fpage><lpage>311</lpage><?supplied-pmid 25754885?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25754885</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR7" publication-type="journal">Zhao D, Liu J, Xie W, Qi Y. Cardiovascular risk assessment: a global perspective. Nat Rev Cardiol. 2015;12(5):301&#x02013;11.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25754885</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR8"><label>8.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR8" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Oparil</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Acelajado</surname><given-names>MC</given-names></name><name><surname>Bakris</surname><given-names>GL</given-names></name><name><surname>Berlowitz</surname><given-names>DR</given-names></name><name><surname>C&#x000ed;fkov&#x000e1;</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Dominiczak</surname><given-names>AF</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><source>Hypertension Nat Rev Dis Primers</source><year>2018</year><volume>4</volume><fpage>18014</fpage><?supplied-pmid 29565029?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29565029</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR8" publication-type="journal">Oparil S, Acelajado MC, Bakris GL, Berlowitz DR, C&#x000ed;fkov&#x000e1; R, Dominiczak AF, et al. Hypertension Nat Rev Dis Primers. 2018;4:18014.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29565029</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR9"><label>9.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR9" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wong</surname><given-names>ND</given-names></name><name><surname>Sattar</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Cardiovascular risk in diabetes mellitus: epidemiology, assessment and prevention</article-title><source>Nat Rev Cardiol</source><year>2023</year><volume>20</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>685</fpage><lpage>695</lpage><?supplied-pmid 37193856?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37193856</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR9" publication-type="journal">Wong ND, Sattar N. Cardiovascular risk in diabetes mellitus: epidemiology, assessment and prevention. Nat Rev Cardiol. 2023;20(10):685&#x02013;95.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37193856</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR10"><label>10.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR10" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Calder</surname><given-names>PC</given-names></name><name><surname>Ahluwalia</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Albers</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Bosco</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Bourdet-Sicard</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Haller</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>A consideration of biomarkers to be used for evaluation of inflammation in human nutritional studies</article-title><source>Br J Nutr</source><year>2013</year><volume>109</volume><issue>Suppl 1</issue><fpage>S1</fpage><lpage>34</lpage><?supplied-pmid 23343744?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23343744</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR10" publication-type="journal">Calder PC, Ahluwalia N, Albers R, Bosco N, Bourdet-Sicard R, Haller D, et al. A consideration of biomarkers to be used for evaluation of inflammation in human nutritional studies. Br J Nutr. 2013;109(Suppl 1):S1-34.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23343744</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR11"><label>11.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR11" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Dotsenko</surname><given-names>O</given-names></name><name><surname>Chaturvedi</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Thom</surname><given-names>SA</given-names></name><name><surname>Wright</surname><given-names>AR</given-names></name><name><surname>Mayet</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Shore</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Platelet and leukocyte activation, atherosclerosis and inflammation in European and South Asian men</article-title><source>J Thromb Haemost</source><year>2007</year><volume>5</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>2036</fpage><lpage>2042</lpage><?supplied-pmid 17883700?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17883700</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR11" publication-type="journal">Dotsenko O, Chaturvedi N, Thom SA, Wright AR, Mayet J, Shore A, et al. Platelet and leukocyte activation, atherosclerosis and inflammation in European and South Asian men. J Thromb Haemost. 2007;5(10):2036&#x02013;42.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17883700</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR12"><label>12.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR12" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Haybar</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Pezeshki</surname><given-names>SMS</given-names></name><name><surname>Saki</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Evaluation of complete blood count parameters in cardiovascular diseases: an early indicator of prognosis?</article-title><source>Exp Mol Pathol</source><year>2019</year><volume>110</volume><fpage>104267</fpage><?supplied-pmid 31194963?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31194963</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR12" publication-type="journal">Haybar H, Pezeshki SMS, Saki N. Evaluation of complete blood count parameters in cardiovascular diseases: an early indicator of prognosis? Exp Mol Pathol. 2019;110:104267.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31194963</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR13"><label>13.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR13" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kurtul</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Ornek</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Platelet to lymphocyte ratio in cardiovascular diseases: a systematic review</article-title><source>Angiology</source><year>2019</year><volume>70</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>802</fpage><lpage>818</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31030530?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31030530</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR13" publication-type="journal">Kurtul A, Ornek E. Platelet to lymphocyte ratio in cardiovascular diseases: a systematic review. Angiology. 2019;70(9):802&#x02013;18.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31030530</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR14"><label>14.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR14" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Tao</surname><given-names>LC</given-names></name><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>JN</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>TT</given-names></name><name><surname>Hua</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>JJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Triglyceride-glucose index as a marker in cardiovascular diseases: landscape and limitations</article-title><source>Cardiovasc Diabetol</source><year>2022</year><volume>21</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>68</fpage><?supplied-pmid 35524263?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35524263</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR14" publication-type="journal">Tao LC, Xu JN, Wang TT, Hua F, Li JJ. Triglyceride-glucose index as a marker in cardiovascular diseases: landscape and limitations. Cardiovasc Diabetol. 2022;21(1):68.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35524263</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR15"><label>15.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR15" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Simental-Mend&#x000ed;a</surname><given-names>LE</given-names></name><name><surname>Rodr&#x000ed;guez-Mor&#x000e1;n</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Guerrero-Romero</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The product of fasting glucose and triglycerides as surrogate for identifying insulin resistance in apparently healthy subjects</article-title><source>Metab Syndr Relat Disord</source><year>2008</year><volume>6</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>299</fpage><lpage>304</lpage><?supplied-pmid 19067533?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">19067533</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR15" publication-type="journal">Simental-Mend&#x000ed;a LE, Rodr&#x000ed;guez-Mor&#x000e1;n M, Guerrero-Romero F. The product of fasting glucose and triglycerides as surrogate for identifying insulin resistance in apparently healthy subjects. Metab Syndr Relat Disord. 2008;6(4):299&#x02013;304.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">19067533</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR16"><label>16.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR16" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kheirollahi</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Teimouri</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Karimi</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Vatannejad</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Moradi</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Borumandnia</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Evaluation of lipid ratios and triglyceride-glucose index as risk markers of insulin resistance in Iranian polycystic ovary syndrome women</article-title><source>Lipids Health Dis</source><year>2020</year><volume>19</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>235</fpage><?supplied-pmid 33161896?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33161896</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR16" publication-type="journal">Kheirollahi A, Teimouri M, Karimi M, Vatannejad A, Moradi N, Borumandnia N, et al. Evaluation of lipid ratios and triglyceride-glucose index as risk markers of insulin resistance in Iranian polycystic ovary syndrome women. Lipids Health Dis. 2020;19(1):235.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33161896</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR17"><label>17.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR17" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Rafiee</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Mohammadifard</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Nouri</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Alavi Tabatabaei</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Najafian</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Sadeghi</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association of triglyceride glucose index with cardiovascular events: insights from the Isfahan Cohort Study (ICS)</article-title><source>Eur J Med Res</source><year>2024</year><volume>29</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>135</fpage><?supplied-pmid 38368388?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38368388</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR17" publication-type="journal">Rafiee H, Mohammadifard N, Nouri F, Alavi Tabatabaei G, Najafian J, Sadeghi M, et al. Association of triglyceride glucose index with cardiovascular events: insights from the Isfahan Cohort Study (ICS). Eur J Med Res. 2024;29(1):135.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38368388</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR18"><label>18.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR18" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Cheng</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Fang</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Wen</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Lu</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>He</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association between triglyceride glucose-body mass index and cardiovascular outcomes in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention: a retrospective study</article-title><source>Cardiovasc Diabetol</source><year>2023</year><volume>22</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>75</fpage><?supplied-pmid 36997935?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36997935</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR18" publication-type="journal">Cheng Y, Fang Z, Zhang X, Wen Y, Lu J, He S, et al. Association between triglyceride glucose-body mass index and cardiovascular outcomes in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention: a retrospective study. Cardiovasc Diabetol. 2023;22(1):75.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36997935</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR19"><label>19.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR19" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Dang</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Hu</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Cheng</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Qi</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The association between triglyceride-glucose index and its combination with obesity indicators and cardiovascular disease: NHANES 2003&#x02013;2018</article-title><source>Cardiovasc Diabetol</source><year>2024</year><volume>23</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>8</fpage><?supplied-pmid 38184598?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38184598</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR19" publication-type="journal">Dang K, Wang X, Hu J, Zhang Y, Cheng L, Qi X, et al. The association between triglyceride-glucose index and its combination with obesity indicators and cardiovascular disease: NHANES 2003&#x02013;2018. Cardiovasc Diabetol. 2024;23(1):8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38184598</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR20"><label>20.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR20" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Wen</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association of the triglyceride glucose-body mass index with the extent of coronary artery disease in patients with acute coronary syndromes</article-title><source>Cardiovasc Diabetol</source><year>2024</year><volume>23</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>24</fpage><?supplied-pmid 38218893?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38218893</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR20" publication-type="journal">Yang X, Li K, Wen J, Yang C, Li Y, Xu G, et al. Association of the triglyceride glucose-body mass index with the extent of coronary artery disease in patients with acute coronary syndromes. Cardiovasc Diabetol. 2024;23(1):24.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38218893</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR21"><label>21.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR21" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ferrante</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Fazzari</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Cozzi</surname><given-names>O</given-names></name><name><surname>Maurina</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Bragato</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>D'Orazio</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Risk factors for myocardial injury and death in patients with COVID-19: insights from a cohort study with chest computed tomography</article-title><source>Cardiovasc Res</source><year>2020</year><volume>116</volume><issue>14</issue><fpage>2239</fpage><lpage>2246</lpage><?supplied-pmid 32637999?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32637999</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR21" publication-type="journal">Ferrante G, Fazzari F, Cozzi O, Maurina M, Bragato R, D&#x02019;Orazio F, et al. Risk factors for myocardial injury and death in patients with COVID-19: insights from a cohort study with chest computed tomography. Cardiovasc Res. 2020;116(14):2239&#x02013;46.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32637999</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR22"><label>22.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR22" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Yin</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Mai</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Lin</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Jie</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>SCD rs41290540 single-nucleotide polymorphism modifies miR-498 binding and is associated with a decreased risk of coronary artery disease</article-title><source>Mol Genet Genomic Med</source><year>2020</year><volume>8</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>e1136</fpage><?supplied-pmid 31965762?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31965762</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR22" publication-type="journal">Liu Z, Yin X, Mai H, Li G, Lin Z, Jie W, et al. SCD rs41290540 single-nucleotide polymorphism modifies miR-498 binding and is associated with a decreased risk of coronary artery disease. Mol Genet Genomic Med. 2020;8(3):e1136.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31965762</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR23"><label>23.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR23" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Weston</surname><given-names>LJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Talegawkar</surname><given-names>SA</given-names></name><name><surname>Tucker</surname><given-names>KL</given-names></name><name><surname>Correa</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Rebholz</surname><given-names>CM</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Plant-based diets and incident cardiovascular disease and all-cause mortality in African Americans: a cohort study</article-title><source>PLoS Med</source><year>2022</year><volume>19</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>e1003863</fpage><?supplied-pmid 34986145?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34986145</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR23" publication-type="journal">Weston LJ, Kim H, Talegawkar SA, Tucker KL, Correa A, Rebholz CM. Plant-based diets and incident cardiovascular disease and all-cause mortality in African Americans: a cohort study. PLoS Med. 2022;19(1):e1003863.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34986145</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR24"><label>24.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR24" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>CF</given-names></name><name><surname>Chien</surname><given-names>LW</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Triglyceride glucose index and poor sleep patterns in non-diabetic adults: evidence from NHANES 2005&#x02013;2016</article-title><source>Front Nutr</source><year>2023</year><volume>10</volume><fpage>1051667</fpage><?supplied-pmid 36793924?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36793924</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR24" publication-type="journal">Liu CF, Chien LW. Triglyceride glucose index and poor sleep patterns in non-diabetic adults: evidence from NHANES 2005&#x02013;2016. Front Nutr. 2023;10:1051667.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36793924</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR25"><label>25.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR25" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Xue</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Ma</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Jiang</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Diagnostic and prognostic value of immune/inflammation biomarkers for venous thromboembolism: is it reliable for clinical practice?</article-title><source>J Inflamm Res</source><year>2021</year><volume>14</volume><fpage>5059</fpage><lpage>5077</lpage><?supplied-pmid 34629886?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34629886</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR25" publication-type="journal">Xue J, Ma D, Jiang J, Liu Y. Diagnostic and prognostic value of immune/inflammation biomarkers for venous thromboembolism: is it reliable for clinical practice? J Inflamm Res. 2021;14:5059&#x02013;77.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34629886</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR26"><label>26.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR26" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kosid&#x00142;o</surname><given-names>JW</given-names></name><name><surname>Wolszczak-Biedrzycka</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Matowicka-Karna</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Dymicka-Piekarska</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Dorf</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Clinical significance and diagnostic utility of NLR, LMR, PLR and SII in the course of COVID-19: a literature review</article-title><source>J Inflamm Res</source><year>2023</year><volume>16</volume><fpage>539</fpage><lpage>562</lpage><?supplied-pmid 36818192?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36818192</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR26" publication-type="journal">Kosid&#x00142;o JW, Wolszczak-Biedrzycka B, Matowicka-Karna J, Dymicka-Piekarska V, Dorf J. Clinical significance and diagnostic utility of NLR, LMR, PLR and SII in the course of COVID-19: a literature review. J Inflamm Res. 2023;16:539&#x02013;62.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36818192</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR27"><label>27.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR27" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Banerjee</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Pasea</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Lai</surname><given-names>AG</given-names></name><name><surname>Katsoulis</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Denaxas</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Excess deaths in people with cardiovascular diseases during the COVID-19 pandemic</article-title><source>Eur J Prev Cardiol</source><year>2021</year><volume>28</volume><issue>14</issue><fpage>1599</fpage><lpage>1609</lpage><?supplied-pmid 33611594?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33611594</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR27" publication-type="journal">Banerjee A, Chen S, Pasea L, Lai AG, Katsoulis M, Denaxas S, et al. Excess deaths in people with cardiovascular diseases during the COVID-19 pandemic. Eur J Prev Cardiol. 2021;28(14):1599&#x02013;609.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33611594</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR28"><label>28.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR28" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Straub</surname><given-names>RH</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The brain and immune system prompt energy shortage in chronic inflammation and ageing</article-title><source>Nat Rev Rheumatol</source><year>2017</year><volume>13</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>743</fpage><lpage>751</lpage><?supplied-pmid 29021568?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29021568</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR28" publication-type="journal">Straub RH. The brain and immune system prompt energy shortage in chronic inflammation and ageing. Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2017;13(12):743&#x02013;51.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29021568</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR29"><label>29.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR29" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ding</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Cheng</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Del Pozo</surname><given-names>CB</given-names></name><name><surname>Lin</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Sun</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>How COVID-19 lockdown and reopening affected daily steps: evidence based on 164,630 person-days of prospectively collected data from Shanghai, China</article-title><source>Int J Behav Nutr Phys Act</source><year>2021</year><volume>18</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>40</fpage><?supplied-pmid 33731132?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33731132</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR29" publication-type="journal">Ding D, Cheng M, Del Pozo CB, Lin T, Sun S, Zhang L, et al. How COVID-19 lockdown and reopening affected daily steps: evidence based on 164,630 person-days of prospectively collected data from Shanghai, China. Int J Behav Nutr Phys Act. 2021;18(1):40.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33731132</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR30"><label>30.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR30" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Breen</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Stokes</surname><given-names>KA</given-names></name><name><surname>Churchward-Venne</surname><given-names>TA</given-names></name><name><surname>Moore</surname><given-names>DR</given-names></name><name><surname>Baker</surname><given-names>SK</given-names></name><name><surname>Smith</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Two weeks of reduced activity decreases leg lean mass and induces &#x0201c;anabolic resistance&#x0201d; of myofibrillar protein synthesis in healthy elderly</article-title><source>J Clin Endocrinol Metab</source><year>2013</year><volume>98</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>2604</fpage><lpage>2612</lpage><?supplied-pmid 23589526?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23589526</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR30" publication-type="journal">Breen L, Stokes KA, Churchward-Venne TA, Moore DR, Baker SK, Smith K, et al. Two weeks of reduced activity decreases leg lean mass and induces &#x0201c;anabolic resistance&#x0201d; of myofibrillar protein synthesis in healthy elderly. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2013;98(6):2604&#x02013;12.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23589526</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR31"><label>31.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR31" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Fedewa</surname><given-names>MV</given-names></name><name><surname>Hathaway</surname><given-names>ED</given-names></name><name><surname>Ward-Ritacco</surname><given-names>CL</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Effect of exercise training on C reactive protein: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised and non-randomised controlled trials</article-title><source>Br J Sports Med</source><year>2017</year><volume>51</volume><issue>8</issue><fpage>670</fpage><lpage>676</lpage><?supplied-pmid 27445361?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27445361</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR31" publication-type="journal">Fedewa MV, Hathaway ED, Ward-Ritacco CL. Effect of exercise training on C reactive protein: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised and non-randomised controlled trials. Br J Sports Med. 2017;51(8):670&#x02013;6.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27445361</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR32"><label>32.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR32" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Fiuza-Luces</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Santos-Lozano</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Joyner</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Carrera-Bastos</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Picazo</surname><given-names>O</given-names></name><name><surname>Zugaza</surname><given-names>JL</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Exercise benefits in cardiovascular disease: beyond attenuation of traditional risk factors</article-title><source>Nat Rev Cardiol</source><year>2018</year><volume>15</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>731</fpage><lpage>743</lpage><?supplied-pmid 30115967?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30115967</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR32" publication-type="journal">Fiuza-Luces C, Santos-Lozano A, Joyner M, Carrera-Bastos P, Picazo O, Zugaza JL, et al. Exercise benefits in cardiovascular disease: beyond attenuation of traditional risk factors. Nat Rev Cardiol. 2018;15(12):731&#x02013;43.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30115967</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR33"><label>33.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR33" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Rose</surname><given-names>AJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Richter</surname><given-names>EA</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Skeletal muscle glucose uptake during exercise: how is it regulated?</article-title><source>Physiology (Bethesda)</source><year>2005</year><volume>20</volume><fpage>260</fpage><lpage>270</lpage><?supplied-pmid 16024514?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">16024514</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR33" publication-type="journal">Rose AJ, Richter EA. Skeletal muscle glucose uptake during exercise: how is it regulated? Physiology (Bethesda). 2005;20:260&#x02013;70.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">16024514</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR34"><label>34.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR34" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wojtaszewski</surname><given-names>JF</given-names></name><name><surname>Richter</surname><given-names>EA</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Effects of acute exercise and training on insulin action and sensitivity: focus on molecular mechanisms in muscle</article-title><source>Essays Biochem</source><year>2006</year><volume>42</volume><fpage>31</fpage><lpage>46</lpage><?supplied-pmid 17144878?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17144878</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR34" publication-type="journal">Wojtaszewski JF, Richter EA. Effects of acute exercise and training on insulin action and sensitivity: focus on molecular mechanisms in muscle. Essays Biochem. 2006;42:31&#x02013;46.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17144878</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR35"><label>35.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR35" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>B&#x00142;achnio-Zabielska</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Zabielski</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Baranowski</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Gorski</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Aerobic training in rats increases skeletal muscle sphingomyelinase and serine palmitoyltransferase activity, while decreasing ceramidase activity</article-title><source>Lipids</source><year>2011</year><volume>46</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>229</fpage><lpage>238</lpage><?supplied-pmid 21181285?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21181285</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR35" publication-type="journal">B&#x00142;achnio-Zabielska A, Zabielski P, Baranowski M, Gorski J. Aerobic training in rats increases skeletal muscle sphingomyelinase and serine palmitoyltransferase activity, while decreasing ceramidase activity. Lipids. 2011;46(3):229&#x02013;38.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21181285</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR36"><label>36.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR36" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Caponi</surname><given-names>PW</given-names></name><name><surname>Lehnen</surname><given-names>AM</given-names></name><name><surname>Pinto</surname><given-names>GH</given-names></name><name><surname>Borges</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Markoski</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Machado</surname><given-names>UF</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Aerobic exercise training induces metabolic benefits in rats with metabolic syndrome independent of dietary changes</article-title><source>Clinics (Sao Paulo)</source><year>2013</year><volume>68</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>1010</fpage><lpage>1017</lpage><?supplied-pmid 23917668?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23917668</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR36" publication-type="journal">Caponi PW, Lehnen AM, Pinto GH, Borges J, Markoski M, Machado UF, et al. Aerobic exercise training induces metabolic benefits in rats with metabolic syndrome independent of dietary changes. Clinics (Sao Paulo). 2013;68(7):1010&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23917668</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR37"><label>37.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR37" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zhao</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Ke</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Huo</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Ma</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Dietary diversity among Chinese residents during the COVID-19 outbreak and its associated factors</article-title><source>Nutrients</source><year>2020</year><volume>12</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>1699</fpage><?supplied-pmid 32517210?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32517210</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR37" publication-type="journal">Zhao A, Li Z, Ke Y, Huo S, Ma Y, Zhang Y, et al. Dietary diversity among Chinese residents during the COVID-19 outbreak and its associated factors. Nutrients. 2020;12(6):1699.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32517210</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR38"><label>38.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR38" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Dickinson</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Hancock</surname><given-names>DP</given-names></name><name><surname>Petocz</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Ceriello</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Brand-Miller</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>High-glycemic index carbohydrate increases nuclear factor-kappaB activation in mononuclear cells of young, lean healthy subjects</article-title><source>Am J Clin Nutr</source><year>2008</year><volume>87</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>1188</fpage><lpage>1193</lpage><?supplied-pmid 18469238?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18469238</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR38" publication-type="journal">Dickinson S, Hancock DP, Petocz P, Ceriello A, Brand-Miller J. High-glycemic index carbohydrate increases nuclear factor-kappaB activation in mononuclear cells of young, lean healthy subjects. Am J Clin Nutr. 2008;87(5):1188&#x02013;93.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18469238</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR39"><label>39.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR39" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Vlassara</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Striker</surname><given-names>GE</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>AGE restriction in diabetes mellitus: a paradigm shift</article-title><source>Nat Rev Endocrinol</source><year>2011</year><volume>7</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>526</fpage><lpage>539</lpage><?supplied-pmid 21610689?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21610689</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR39" publication-type="journal">Vlassara H, Striker GE. AGE restriction in diabetes mellitus: a paradigm shift. Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2011;7(9):526&#x02013;39.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21610689</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR40"><label>40.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR40" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Nielsen</surname><given-names>FH</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Effects of magnesium depletion on inflammation in chronic disease</article-title><source>Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care</source><year>2014</year><volume>17</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>525</fpage><lpage>530</lpage><?supplied-pmid 25023192?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25023192</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR40" publication-type="journal">Nielsen FH. Effects of magnesium depletion on inflammation in chronic disease. Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2014;17(6):525&#x02013;30.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25023192</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR41"><label>41.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR41" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bonaventura</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Benedetti</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Albar&#x000e8;de</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Miossec</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Zinc and its role in immunity and inflammation</article-title><source>Autoimmun Rev</source><year>2015</year><volume>14</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>277</fpage><lpage>285</lpage><?supplied-pmid 25462582?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25462582</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR41" publication-type="journal">Bonaventura P, Benedetti G, Albar&#x000e8;de F, Miossec P. Zinc and its role in immunity and inflammation. Autoimmun Rev. 2015;14(4):277&#x02013;85.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25462582</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR42"><label>42.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR42" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Calder</surname><given-names>PC</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Omega-3 fatty acids and inflammatory processes: from molecules to man</article-title><source>Biochem Soc Trans</source><year>2017</year><volume>45</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>1105</fpage><lpage>1115</lpage><?supplied-pmid 28900017?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28900017</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR42" publication-type="journal">Calder PC. Omega-3 fatty acids and inflammatory processes: from molecules to man. Biochem Soc Trans. 2017;45(5):1105&#x02013;15.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28900017</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR43"><label>43.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR43" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Fardet</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Minimally processed foods are more satiating and less hyperglycemic than ultra-processed foods: a preliminary study with 98 ready-to-eat foods</article-title><source>Food Funct</source><year>2016</year><volume>7</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>2338</fpage><lpage>2346</lpage><?supplied-pmid 27125637?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27125637</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR43" publication-type="journal">Fardet A. Minimally processed foods are more satiating and less hyperglycemic than ultra-processed foods: a preliminary study with 98 ready-to-eat foods. Food Funct. 2016;7(5):2338&#x02013;46.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27125637</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR44"><label>44.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR44" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Blaak</surname><given-names>EE</given-names></name><name><surname>Antoine</surname><given-names>JM</given-names></name><name><surname>Benton</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Bj&#x000f6;rck</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Bozzetto</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Brouns</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Impact of postprandial glycaemia on health and prevention of disease</article-title><source>Obes Rev</source><year>2012</year><volume>13</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>923</fpage><lpage>984</lpage><?supplied-pmid 22780564?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22780564</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR44" publication-type="journal">Blaak EE, Antoine JM, Benton D, Bj&#x000f6;rck I, Bozzetto L, Brouns F, et al. Impact of postprandial glycaemia on health and prevention of disease. Obes Rev. 2012;13(10):923&#x02013;84.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22780564</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR45"><label>45.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR45" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Pierce</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Hope</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Ford</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Hatch</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Hotopf</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>John</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Mental health before and during the COVID-19 pandemic: a longitudinal probability sample survey of the UK population</article-title><source>Lancet Psychiatry</source><year>2020</year><volume>7</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>883</fpage><lpage>892</lpage><?supplied-pmid 32707037?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32707037</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR45" publication-type="journal">Pierce M, Hope H, Ford T, Hatch S, Hotopf M, John A, et al. Mental health before and during the COVID-19 pandemic: a longitudinal probability sample survey of the UK population. Lancet Psychiatry. 2020;7(10):883&#x02013;92.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32707037</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR46"><label>46.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR46" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Prati</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Mancini</surname><given-names>AD</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The psychological impact of COVID-19 pandemic lockdowns: a review and meta-analysis of longitudinal studies and natural experiments</article-title><source>Psychol Med</source><year>2021</year><volume>51</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>201</fpage><lpage>211</lpage><?supplied-pmid 33436130?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33436130</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR46" publication-type="journal">Prati G, Mancini AD. The psychological impact of COVID-19 pandemic lockdowns: a review and meta-analysis of longitudinal studies and natural experiments. Psychol Med. 2021;51(2):201&#x02013;11.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33436130</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR47"><label>47.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR47" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Richter</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Riedel-Heller</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Z&#x000fc;rcher</surname><given-names>SJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Mental health problems in the general population during and after the first lockdown phase due to the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic: rapid review of multi-wave studies</article-title><source>Epidemiol Psychiatr Sci</source><year>2021</year><volume>30</volume><fpage>e27</fpage><?supplied-pmid 33685551?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33685551</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR47" publication-type="journal">Richter D, Riedel-Heller S, Z&#x000fc;rcher SJ. Mental health problems in the general population during and after the first lockdown phase due to the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic: rapid review of multi-wave studies. Epidemiol Psychiatr Sci. 2021;30:e27.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33685551</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR48"><label>48.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR48" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Cohen</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Janicki-Deverts</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Doyle</surname><given-names>WJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Miller</surname><given-names>GE</given-names></name><name><surname>Frank</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Rabin</surname><given-names>BS</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Chronic stress, glucocorticoid receptor resistance, inflammation, and disease risk</article-title><source>Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A</source><year>2012</year><volume>109</volume><issue>16</issue><fpage>5995</fpage><lpage>5999</lpage><?supplied-pmid 22474371?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22474371</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR48" publication-type="journal">Cohen S, Janicki-Deverts D, Doyle WJ, Miller GE, Frank E, Rabin BS, et al. Chronic stress, glucocorticoid receptor resistance, inflammation, and disease risk. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2012;109(16):5995&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22474371</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR49"><label>49.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR49" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Miller</surname><given-names>AH</given-names></name><name><surname>Raison</surname><given-names>CL</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The role of inflammation in depression: from evolutionary imperative to modern treatment target</article-title><source>Nat Rev Immunol</source><year>2016</year><volume>16</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>22</fpage><lpage>34</lpage><?supplied-pmid 26711676?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26711676</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR49" publication-type="journal">Miller AH, Raison CL. The role of inflammation in depression: from evolutionary imperative to modern treatment target. Nat Rev Immunol. 2016;16(1):22&#x02013;34.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26711676</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR50"><label>50.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR50" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Campisi</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Aging, cellular senescence, and cancer</article-title><source>Annu Rev Physiol</source><year>2013</year><volume>75</volume><fpage>685</fpage><lpage>705</lpage><?supplied-pmid 23140366?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23140366</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR50" publication-type="journal">Campisi J. Aging, cellular senescence, and cancer. Annu Rev Physiol. 2013;75:685&#x02013;705.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23140366</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR51"><label>51.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR51" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zitvogel</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Pietrocola</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Kroemer</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Nutrition, inflammation and cancer</article-title><source>Nat Immunol</source><year>2017</year><volume>18</volume><issue>8</issue><fpage>843</fpage><lpage>850</lpage><?supplied-pmid 28722707?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28722707</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR51" publication-type="journal">Zitvogel L, Pietrocola F, Kroemer G. Nutrition, inflammation and cancer. Nat Immunol. 2017;18(8):843&#x02013;50.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28722707</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR52"><label>52.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR52" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Razzoli</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Nyuyki-Dufe</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Gurney</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Erickson</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>McCallum</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Spielman</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Social stress shortens lifespan in mice</article-title><source>Aging Cell</source><year>2018</year><volume>17</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>e12778</fpage><?supplied-pmid 29806171?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29806171</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR52" publication-type="journal">Razzoli M, Nyuyki-Dufe K, Gurney A, Erickson C, McCallum J, Spielman N, et al. Social stress shortens lifespan in mice. Aging Cell. 2018;17(4):e12778.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29806171</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR53"><label>53.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR53" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Woodall</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Ramage</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>LaBruyere</surname><given-names>JT</given-names></name><name><surname>McLean</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Tak</surname><given-names>CR</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Telemedicine services during COVID-19: considerations for medically underserved populations</article-title><source>J Rural Health</source><year>2021</year><volume>37</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>231</fpage><lpage>234</lpage><?supplied-pmid 32613657?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32613657</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR53" publication-type="journal">Woodall T, Ramage M, LaBruyere JT, McLean W, Tak CR. Telemedicine services during COVID-19: considerations for medically underserved populations. J Rural Health. 2021;37(1):231&#x02013;4.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32613657</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR54"><label>54.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR54" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Temesgen</surname><given-names>ZM</given-names></name><name><surname>DeSimone</surname><given-names>DC</given-names></name><name><surname>Mahmood</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Libertin</surname><given-names>CR</given-names></name><name><surname>Varatharaj Palraj</surname><given-names>BR</given-names></name><name><surname>Berbari</surname><given-names>EF</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Health care after the COVID-19 pandemic and the influence of telemedicine</article-title><source>Mayo Clin Proc</source><year>2020</year><volume>95</volume><issue>9s</issue><fpage>S66</fpage><lpage>S68</lpage><?supplied-pmid 32948262?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32948262</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR54" publication-type="journal">Temesgen ZM, DeSimone DC, Mahmood M, Libertin CR, Varatharaj Palraj BR, Berbari EF. Health care after the COVID-19 pandemic and the influence of telemedicine. Mayo Clin Proc. 2020;95(9s):S66&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32948262</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR55"><label>55.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR55" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bhatla</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Ding</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Mhaimeed</surname><given-names>O</given-names></name><name><surname>Spaulding</surname><given-names>EM</given-names></name><name><surname>Commodore-Mensah</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Plante</surname><given-names>TB</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Patterns of telehealth visits after the COVID-19 pandemic among individuals with or at risk for cardiovascular disease in the United States</article-title><source>J Am Heart Assoc</source><year>2024</year><volume>13</volume><issue>17</issue><fpage>e036475</fpage><?supplied-pmid 39206726?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39206726</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR55" publication-type="journal">Bhatla A, Ding J, Mhaimeed O, Spaulding EM, Commodore-Mensah Y, Plante TB, et al. Patterns of telehealth visits after the COVID-19 pandemic among individuals with or at risk for cardiovascular disease in the United States. J Am Heart Assoc. 2024;13(17):e036475.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39206726</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR56"><label>56.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR56" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Cowie</surname><given-names>MR</given-names></name><name><surname>Lam</surname><given-names>CSP</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Remote monitoring and digital health tools in CVD management</article-title><source>Nat Rev Cardiol</source><year>2021</year><volume>18</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>457</fpage><lpage>458</lpage><?supplied-pmid 33824486?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33824486</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR56" publication-type="journal">Cowie MR, Lam CSP. Remote monitoring and digital health tools in CVD management. Nat Rev Cardiol. 2021;18(7):457&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33824486</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR57"><label>57.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR57" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Naylor-Wardle</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Rowland</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Kunadian</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Socioeconomic status and cardiovascular health in the COVID-19 pandemic</article-title><source>Heart</source><year>2021</year><volume>107</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>358</fpage><lpage>365</lpage><?supplied-pmid 33452116?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33452116</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR57" publication-type="journal">Naylor-Wardle J, Rowland B, Kunadian V. Socioeconomic status and cardiovascular health in the COVID-19 pandemic. Heart. 2021;107(5):358&#x02013;65.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33452116</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR58"><label>58.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR58" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Maung</surname><given-names>KK</given-names></name><name><surname>Marques-Vidal</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on CVD prevention between different socioeconomic groups in Switzerland</article-title><source>Open Heart</source><year>2023</year><volume>10</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>e002368</fpage><?supplied-pmid 37730269?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37730269</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR58" publication-type="journal">Maung KK, Marques-Vidal P. Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on CVD prevention between different socioeconomic groups in Switzerland. Open Heart. 2023;10(2):e002368.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37730269</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref></ref-list></back></article>