# Shrinking the malaria map in Indonesia: progress of subnational control, elimination, and future strategies.

<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//NLM//DTD JATS (Z39.96) Journal Archiving and Interchange DTD with MathML3 v1.3 20210610//EN" "JATS-archivearticle1-3-mathml3.dtd"> 
<article xmlns:ali="http://www.niso.org/schemas/ali/1.0/" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" article-type="review-article" dtd-version="1.3"><?properties open_access?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierValue -//Springer-Verlag//DTD A++ V2.4//EN?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierType public?><?SourceDTD.DTDName A++V2.4.dtd?><?SourceDTD.Version 2.4?><?ConverterInfo.XSLTName springer2nlmx2.xsl?><?ConverterInfo.Version 1?><processing-meta base-tagset="archiving" mathml-version="3.0" table-model="xhtml" tagset-family="jats"><restricted-by>pmc</restricted-by></processing-meta><front><journal-meta><journal-id journal-id-type="nlm-ta">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-id journal-id-type="iso-abbrev">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-title-group><journal-title>BMC Medicine</journal-title></journal-title-group><issn pub-type="epub">1741-7015</issn><publisher><publisher-name>BioMed Central</publisher-name><publisher-loc>London</publisher-loc></publisher></journal-meta>
<article-meta><article-id pub-id-type="pmcid">12403376</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="pmid">40890766</article-id>
<article-id pub-id-type="publisher-id">4355</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12916-025-04355-w</article-id><article-categories><subj-group subj-group-type="heading"><subject>Review</subject></subj-group></article-categories><title-group><article-title>Shrinking the malaria map in Indonesia: progress of subnational control, elimination, and future strategies</article-title></title-group><contrib-group><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Herdiana</surname><given-names>Herdiana</given-names></name><address><email>hherdiana@gmail.com</email><email>basrih@who.int</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Prameswari</surname><given-names>Hellen Dewi</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Puspadewi</surname><given-names>Riskha Tiara</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Fajariyani</surname><given-names>Sri Budi</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Diptyanusa</surname><given-names>Ajib</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Theodora</surname><given-names>Minerva</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Supriyanto</surname><given-names>Dedy</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Hawley</surname><given-names>William A.</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref></contrib><aff id="Aff1"><label>1</label>World Health Organization, Country Office for Indonesia, Jakarta, Indonesia </aff><aff id="Aff2"><label>2</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/03r419717</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.415709.e</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 0470 8161</institution-id><institution>Malaria Working Team, </institution><institution>Ministry of Health, </institution></institution-wrap>Jakarta, Indonesia </aff><aff id="Aff3"><label>3</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/03r419717</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.415709.e</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 0470 8161</institution-id><institution>Technical Working Group of Malaria, </institution><institution>Ministry of Health, </institution></institution-wrap>Jakarta, Indonesia </aff></contrib-group><pub-date pub-type="epub"><day>1</day><month>9</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="pmc-release"><day>1</day><month>9</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="collection"><year>2025</year></pub-date><volume>23</volume><elocation-id>512</elocation-id><history><date date-type="received"><day>27</day><month>1</month><year>2025</year></date><date date-type="accepted"><day>19</day><month>8</month><year>2025</year></date></history><permissions><copyright-statement>&#x000a9; The Author(s) 2025</copyright-statement><copyright-year>2025</copyright-year><license><ali:license_ref specific-use="textmining" content-type="ccbyncndlicense">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ali:license_ref><license-p><bold>Open Access</bold> This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed material. You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/">http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ext-link>.</license-p></license></permissions><abstract id="Abs1"><sec><title>Background</title><p id="Par13">Indonesia has a complex pattern of malaria transmission alongside a highly decentralized system of governance. Indonesia applies a subnational elimination strategy to achieve nationwide malaria elimination by 2030. This review describes Indonesia&#x02019;s subnational verification process, assesses progress towards subnational elimination over the past several decades, and explores strategies to accelerate achievement of elimination, including the challenges of high transmission in lowland Papua region and zoonotic malaria in Sumatra and Kalimantan islands.</p></sec><sec><title>Methods</title><p id="Par14">Published and unpublished data, reports, and grey literature in Indonesian and English from 1950 to 2023 were collected and analyzed. These reports document strategies, geographic coverage, and malaria metrics. Most of the unpublished data and reports are from the Ministry of Health of Indonesia, including the guidelines describing processes for certification of district-level malaria elimination.</p></sec><sec><title>Results</title><p id="Par15">While the number of malaria cases has fluctuated over the years, cases decreased significantly by 2015 but increased during the Coronavirus disease-19 (COVID-19) pandemic. Nonetheless, as of 2023, 389 of 514 districts and five of 38 provinces had been verified as having no local transmission of malaria, with the most rapid progress observed in western Indonesia. We describe the malaria elimination verification process in detail, including the criteria used and challenges encountered. Malaria cases are now localized in the Papua region, which reports more than 90% of cases in the country. The lowland Papua region experiences high transmission with malaria incidence of over 400 cases per 1000 person-years due to its efficient vectors and high year-round rainfall. Expansion of malaria transmission to highland Papua due to climate change is likely happening. In the west, pockets of transmission persist in remote areas and among mobile and migrant populations. Further, frequent outbreaks occur in malaria-free districts, with two districts now experiencing re-established transmission. In addition, reports of zoonotic <italic>Plasmodium knowlesi</italic> infections in humans are increasing.</p></sec><sec><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par16">Existing interventions will need to be well-managed, and new combinations of interventions implemented if Indonesia is to achieve its goal of malaria elimination by 2030, particularly in high-endemic Papua, which will remain a source of importation of malaria to other regions of Indonesia if malaria there is not eliminated.</p></sec><sec><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12916-025-04355-w.</p></sec></abstract><kwd-group xml:lang="en"><title>Keywords</title><kwd>Malaria</kwd><kwd>Subnational elimination</kwd><kwd>Control strategy</kwd><kwd>Indonesia</kwd></kwd-group><custom-meta-group><custom-meta><meta-name>issue-copyright-statement</meta-name><meta-value>&#x000a9; BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2025</meta-value></custom-meta></custom-meta-group></article-meta></front><body><sec id="Sec1"><title>Background</title><p id="Par64">The government of Indonesia has formally pledged to eliminate malaria by 2030 by a Minister of Health Decree 293/2009 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>] and by the President of the Republic of Indonesia at the 9th East Asia Summit in 2014 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>].</p><p id="Par65">In 1999, Indonesia&#x02019;s government system decentralized, whereby the primary responsibility for service delivery and funding of health programs was transferred to provincial and district governments [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>]. The roles and responsibilities of subnational governments were expanded under the Law 32/2004 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>] with the intent to prioritize the principles of democracy, community participation, equality, and justice, while considering differences in economic potential and diversity [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>]. The provincial governments were further strengthened by Law 23/2014 which designated them as representatives of the central government [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>].
</p><p id="Par66">These decentralization laws provide the framework of subnational regional autonomy, whereby subnational governments are not only implementors but also policy-makers. The subnational governments develop policies on health, spatial planning, and other, specifically local issues [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>]. The division of roles and responsibilities for health among national and subnational governments is explicitly described in Law 17/2023 whereby the Ministry of Health is the lead for management of national programs such as tuberculosis (TB), human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS), malaria, and neglected tropical diseases (NTDs), but management of healthcare facilities and community networks is implemented and coordinated by provincial and district governments [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>].</p><p id="Par67">In addition to its complex decentralized governance system, Indonesia with its 275 million citizens is the largest entirely tropical archipelagic state with over 17 thousand islands straddling two biogeographic regions with diverse mosquito vectors, malaria parasites, languages, ethnicities, cultures, and intensity of malaria transmission [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>] making a subnational malaria elimination approach essential.</p><sec id="Sec2"><title>Policy of subnational elimination strategy</title><p id="Par68">In 2009, the Indonesian Ministry of Health (MoH) set 2030 as the target for national malaria elimination via a stepwise subnational approach [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>]. Shortly thereafter, the MoH appointed a Commission for Evaluation of Malaria Elimination [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>], which consists of independent experts in malaria control and elimination, headed by a former malaria control program manager with subsequent experience with the World Health Organization (WHO). In collaboration with this Commission, the MoH developed a formal verification process, based upon WHO principles on malaria elimination for large countries, allowing verification at the subnational level [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>]. The first level to be certified is the district. Once all districts in a province have been certified, a provincial-level certificate may be issued. In 2022 a Ministry of Health Regulation No. 22/2022 endorsed a regional island grouping approach for verification of elimination as a precursor to eventual WHO certification [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>]. A subnational elimination tool was developed by the National Malaria Program (NMP) adapted from the WHO framework for malaria elimination [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>] and later revised as per guidance from the WHO manual on preparing for certification of malaria elimination [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>]. The verification process begins with self-assessment of elimination status at the district and province level based on predetermined indicators with subsequent independent verification by the National Committee for Evaluation of Malaria Elimination (NCEME) or in Indonesian language <italic>Komisi Penilaian Eliminasi Malaria</italic> [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec3"><title>Stratification</title><p id="Par69">In its written policy, the NMP outlines different strategies for four strata of endemicity: (1) Districts with Annual Parasite Incidence (API)&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;5 categorized as high endemic, (2) Districts with API with value ranging from 1 to 5, categorized as moderate endemic, (3) Districts with API&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;1 are classified as low endemic, and (4) Districts with no indigenous transmission for 3 consecutive years will be categorized as elimination districts after verification. However, a fifth stratum is informally recognized in lowland Papua as &#x0201c;very high endemic&#x0201d; with an API&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;100 per 1000 person-years, whereby multiple interventions are used to reduce burden; these interventions are discussed in detail below.</p><p id="Par70">In high endemic areas with API&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;5 the goal is to decrease transmission and endemicity to API&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;5 per 1000 person-years via universal access to prevention with long-lasting insecticidal nets (LLINs), early detection and treatment, community awareness, and integration with other health programs to reach pregnant women and children under 5&#x000a0;years of age. For districts/municipalities with an API of 1&#x02013;5 per 1000 person-years, the goal is to reduce number of active foci via stratification of endemicity by village, with receptive areas and foci mapped annually as a basis for foci-based interventions. While in low endemic districts, with an API&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;1 per 1000 person-years, the aim is halt local transmission via implementation of &#x0201c;1&#x02013;2-5 approach&#x0201d; for all cases which entails notification on Day 1 of case detection and notification, epidemiological investigation to determine occurrence or absence of local transmission on Day 2, and appropriate response to foci by Day 5, if local transmission is detected. A district/city that has successfully maintained no local malaria transmission for three consecutive years may submit a request for elimination assessment to the province, and then to the MoH to obtain a malaria-free certificate. In districts which have been certified as malaria-free, prevention of re-establishment is conducted by (i) strengthening surveillance of migrant populations including prevention of malaria for travellers; (ii) mapping of receptive and vulnerable areas along with surveillance and vector control; (iii) early warning and response system (EWARS) for outbreaks or unusual events; and (iv) re-orientation of surveillance so as to be integrated with other health programs [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>].</p><p id="Par71">We review progress made in the past decade, including changes that will need to be implemented if Indonesia is to achieve its goal of national elimination by 2030, especially for difficult to reach populations in Sumatra, Kalimantan, and Sulawesi islands and in highly endemic areas of the Indonesian Papua region.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec4"><title>Methods</title><sec id="Sec5"><title>Site</title><p id="Par72">Indonesia is an entirely tropical Southeast Asian archipelago with a land area of 1.9 million square kilometers. Most Indonesians inhabit the five main islands of Sumatra, Java, Kalimantan, Sulawesi, and Papua [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>]. Administratively, the country has 38 provinces and 514 districts/municipalities; four of the 38 provinces were newly created by a 2022 law [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>]. Indonesia is the fourth most population nation with over 275 million people with 56% of the population residing on the island of Java [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>].</p><p id="Par73">Rainfall varies both in amount and seasonality depending upon location, but most of Indonesia receives copious rain, raining from 1800 to 3200&#x000a0;mm annually, with some highland regions receiving up to 6300&#x000a0;mm. In much of western Indonesia, the wet season occurs from November to April, while in lowland Papua rainfall occurs throughout the year [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec6"><title>Study design and data collection</title><p id="Par74">We reviewed published reports and grey literature on malaria in Indonesia covering the period between 1950 and 2023. Data were also collected from the annual Indonesia health profiles published by the MoH, national strategic planning documents for health and for malaria, World Malaria Reports from WHO, malaria program review reports from 2011, 2016, 2019, and 2022, as well as reports from WHO consultants. Published literature in English and Bahasa Indonesia were searched in PubMed, Google scholar, Science direct, and Neliti.com using the terms &#x0201c;malaria&#x0201d; and &#x0201c;Indonesia&#x0201d; and &#x0201c;epidemiology&#x0201d; and &#x0201c;elimination&#x0201d;.</p><p id="Par75">We also accessed anonymized data extracted from the national malaria surveillance system and WHO. No individual patient data was collected. No ethical approval was required for this review.</p></sec><sec id="Sec7"><title>Analytical approach</title><p id="Par76">While we were able to access data on the total number of malaria cases by year from 1953 to 2023, detailed data by gender, age, and occupation were available beginning in 2018 when the electronic malaria information system (SISMAL) was initiated. Malaria case characteristics were described using frequency and percentage for categorical variables. Microsoft Excel for Windows Version 10 was used for data analysis. Maps of malaria endemicity and subnational elimination status by district/municipality and province were produced from SISMAL data re-analyzed via QGIS version 3.34 or maps published by the MoH.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec8"><title>Results</title><sec id="Sec9"><title>Epidemiological trends and changes</title><p id="Par77">Over the past century, Indonesia&#x02019;s malaria program has changed both its target areas and its strategies, as summarized in Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref>. The Central Malaria Bureau was established by the colonial authorities in 1924, building upon a long history of knowledge of fever cases and high spleen indices in Batavia (now Jakarta) dating back centuries [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>]. In the pre-independence era, malaria control relied primarily on &#x02018;species sanitation&#x02019;&#x02014;now known as larval source management&#x02014;to control specific vectors. Focus areas were primarily in Java and parts of Sumatra. After independence in 1945, the Indonesian government began malaria control using indoor residual spraying (IRS) with Dichloro-diphenyl-trichloroethane (DDT) and treatment using chloroquine; in this period, parasite prevalence ranged as high at 87% before implementation of these interventions. The DDT and chloroquine (CQ)-based malaria eradication program managed by the national malaria eradication services (KOPEM/<italic>Komando</italic>
<italic>Operasi Pembasmian Malaria</italic>) focused on Java and south Sumatra, which succeeded in reducing parasite prevalence in these populous areas to 0.15 to 2.11% [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR21">21</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>].
<table-wrap id="Tab1"><label>Table 1</label><caption><p>Summary of malaria control in Indonesia over time</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left"/><th align="left"><bold>Pre-independence</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>Malaria control program</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>Malaria eradication program</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>Integrated malaria control program</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>Roll back malaria campaign</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>Malaria elimination program</bold></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left"><bold>Timeline</bold></td><td align="left">sixteenth century &#x02013; pre-1945</td><td align="left">1945&#x02013;1958</td><td align="left">1959&#x02013;1965</td><td align="left">1966&#x02013;1999</td><td align="left">2000&#x02013;2009</td><td align="left">2010&#x02013;up to now</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>Program management</bold></td><td align="left"><p>&#x02013; VOC/Dutch authorities</p><p>&#x02013; The Civil Medical Service (CMS) established in 1826</p><p>&#x02013; The Public Health Service was reorganized from CMS in 1911</p><p>&#x02013; The Central Malaria Bureau established in 1924</p></td><td align="left"><p>Establishment of</p><p>malaria control</p><p>bureau or (LPPM) <italic>Lembaga</italic></p><p><italic>Pemberantasan</italic></p><p><italic>Penyakit Malaria</italic></p></td><td align="left"><p>&#x02013; Establishment of National Malaria Eradication Services or KOPEM (<italic>Komando Operasi Pembasmian Malaria)</italic></p><p>&#x02013; Eradication target by 1970 was set</p></td><td align="left"><p>&#x02013; KOPEM merged under Directorate General Communicable Diseases Control (CDC)</p><p>&#x02013; Malaria program incorporated into health system</p></td><td align="left"><p>&#x02013; National malaria control program (NMCP) under the Minister of Health (MoH)</p><p>&#x02013; &#x0201c;Gebrak malaria&#x0201d; or &#x0201c;Crushing malaria&#x0201d; initiative was launched</p></td><td align="left"><p>&#x02013; Malaria elimination target by 2030 was launched</p><p>&#x02013; Subnational malaria elimination strategy by district-province and regional island groups</p></td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>Interventions</bold></td><td align="left"><p>&#x02013; Larval source management (environmental modification)</p><p>&#x02013; Mapping bionomics of mosquitoes</p></td><td align="left"><p>&#x02013; IRS using DDT</p><p>&#x02013; Malariometric survey</p><p>&#x02013; Mass chloroquine treatment in Demta, Papua</p><p>&#x02013; Started diagnosis using microscopy in PCD</p></td><td align="left"><p>&#x02013; IRS using DDT</p><p>&#x02013; Malariometric survey</p></td><td align="left"><p>&#x02013; Vector control</p><p>(ITNs/IRS)</p><p>&#x02013; Laboratory</p><p>diagnosis by microscopy in Java-Bali, clinical diagnosis for presumed cases outside Java-Bali</p></td><td align="left"><p>&#x02013; ACD and PCD via village malaria post</p><p>&#x02013; Case management with effective drugs (ACTs)</p><p>&#x02013; Vector control (primarily ITNs)</p><p>&#x02013; Surveillance</p></td><td align="left"><p>Core interventions</p><p>conducted based on four strata of endemicity approaches</p><p>(Acceleration, Intensification,</p><p>elimination,</p><p>prevention of re-establishment)</p></td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>Intervention areas</bold></td><td align="left">46 endemic districts in Sumatra, Java, the Lesser Sunda, Sulawesi, and Papua</td><td align="left"><p>Java, South Sumatra, Lampung,</p><p>Northern Central, Sulawesi, Maluku and Papua</p></td><td align="left"><p>66 zones in Java, Bali and South Sumatra included</p><p>Lampung</p></td><td align="left">Java-Bali and 21 provinces outside Java-Bali with priority areas having parasite rates&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;2%</td><td align="left">Java-Bali and 21 provinces outside Java-Bali</td><td align="left">All provinces and 514 districts</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>Burden reported</bold></td><td align="left">Spleen index varies from 2 to 98%</td><td align="left">Parasite rate varies between 2 and 87%</td><td align="left">Parasite rate varies between 0.15 and 2.11%</td><td align="left"><p>Incidence in Java-Bali from 0.1 to 4.7 per 1000 person-years</p><p>Parasite rate outside Java-Bali between 2.9 and 15.5%</p></td><td align="left">National incidence reduced from 3.62 in 2000 to 1.86 per 1000 person-years in 2009</td><td align="left">National incidence levelled off between 0.84 and 1.96 per 1000 person-years, but number of districts with no local transmission increased gradually</td></tr></tbody></table></table-wrap></p><p id="Par78">Indonesia formally integrated its malaria control program into the overall health system in 1966 under the Directorate General Communicable Diseases Control (CDC) of the MoH, though significant programmatic verticality remained. At that time, a marked disparity between Bali and Java and the rest of Indonesia was evident, with a parasite incidence in Java-Bali of 0.1&#x02013;4.7 per 1000 person-years and a prevalence of 2.9&#x02013;15.5% in the remainder of the country, which was largely neglected by the malaria program. In 2000, the Minister of Health launched the &#x0201c;Gebrak Malaria&#x0201d; or &#x0201c;Crush Malaria&#x0201d; initiative as part of the global Roll Back Malaria Campaign. During the period 2000&#x02013;2009, the reported national incidence declined from 3.62 in 2000 to 1.86 per 1000 person-years in 2009 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR21">21</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR28">28</xref>]. The Gebrak Malaria initiative also marked the beginning of serious, sustained efforts to control malaria in the remote high-incidence eastern part of the country. Formal efforts to elimination malaria began in 2010 as a presidential initiative endorsed by a decree from the Minister of Health (No. 293/2009) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>].</p><p id="Par79">As the NMP began covering all areas of the country only in 2000, the malaria trend shown in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref> does not represent cases in the entire country prior to that year. However, based on the data available, the number of confirmed malaria cases fluctuated from 1953 to 2023, with a peak in 1973 with over 490 thousand cases, and another peak in 2010 with over 465,000. Afterwards, malaria incidence decreased by two-fold from 1.96 in 2010 to 0.85 per 1000 person-years in 2015, while in the next 5&#x000a0;years (2016&#x02013;2020), incidence levelled off between 0.84 and 0.99 per 1000 person-years. After the COVID-19 pandemic, reported malaria incidence increased gradually over the years from 1.1 in 2021 to 1.5 per 1000 person-years in 2023 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR29">29</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>], although number of people tested dropped by 30% in 2020 compared to 2019. Fluctuations in the positivity rate over the past decades have been greatly influenced by the number of people tested, particularly in the early years when many people from low-incidence Java were tested.<fig id="Fig1"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;1</label><caption><p>Trend of reported malaria confirmed and presumed cases with positivity rate for Indonesia 1953&#x02013;2023.&#x000a0;MCP: malaria control program, data was obtained only for Central Java (including Yogyakarta) from 1945 to 1958; MEraP: malaria eradication program between 1959 and 1965, data were obtained for Java, Bali, Lampung. IMCP: integrated malaria control program from 1966 to 1999, data covered almost all provinces with priority areas being those with parasite rate&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;2%. RBMC: Roll back malaria campaign from 2000 to 2009, data was from all provinces. MElimP: malaria elimination program started in 2010 until now and covers all provinces and districts/municipalities. The number of malaria confirmed cases and positivity rate were obtained from unpublished data of MoH and WHO and published sources as follows: [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR22">22</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR26">26</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR29">29</xref>]</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4355_Fig1_HTML" id="MO1"/></fig></p><p id="Par80">Based on WHO estimation, Indonesia reduced both the morbidity and mortality rate by less than 40% from 2015 to 2020 and thus did not achieve the first milestone of the global technical strategy (GTS) 2020 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR31">31</xref>]. In addition, malaria prevalence dropped from 0.6 to 0.49% between 2018 and 2023, according to national health survey data [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR32">32</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR33">33</xref>].</p><p id="Par81">All four human <italic>Plasmodium</italic> species are found in Indonesia, and the zoonotic species <italic>P. knowlesi</italic> has been found in Sumatra and Kalimantan. The changing trend in the proportion of these four <italic>Plasmodia</italic> at national level is shown in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>. <italic>P. falciparum</italic> became the dominant species in 2009, but its relative proportion has declined in the last 5&#x000a0;years [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR29">29</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR34">34</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR35">35</xref>]. Prior to 2000, <italic>P. vivax</italic> was predominant with almost all confirmed cases reported from Java and Bali using microscopy for diagnosis, while outside this region diagnosis was by clinical symptoms. In 2010, laboratory confirmation either through microscopy or RDT became national policy. In the last 10&#x000a0;years, laboratory-confirmed cases were reported mostly from eastern Indonesia, and more recently predominately from the Papua region. A clear reduction of the proportion of <italic>P. falciparum</italic> can be seen in low and moderate endemic districts, while in high endemic districts the proportion increased from 2013 and 2023 data (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref>). <italic>P. vivax</italic> cases have become predominant in malaria-free, low and moderate endemic districts. The infections of both <italic>Plasmodium</italic> species often occur in sympatry where the two parasites coexist and are diagnosed as mixed infection.<fig id="Fig2"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;2</label><caption><p>Proportion of malaria cases by <italic>Plasmodium&#x000a0;</italic>species of Indonesia 1990&#x02013;2023.&#x000a0;Source: World malaria reports and MoH reports</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4355_Fig2_HTML" id="MO2"/></fig><table-wrap id="Tab2"><label>Table 2</label><caption><p>Percentage of malaria confirmed cases by gender, <italic>Plasmodium</italic> species and age group stratified by endemicity level in 2013 and 2023. Source data: MoH reports</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left"/><th align="left"><bold>Elimination 2013</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>Elimination 2023</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>Low endemic 2013</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>Low endemic 2023</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>Moderate endemic 2013</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>Moderate endemic 2023</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>High endemic 2013</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>High endemic 2023</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>National 2013</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>National 2023</bold></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left" colspan="11"><bold>Gender</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Male</td><td align="left">0.00</td><td align="left">0.76</td><td align="left">0.69</td><td align="left">0.59</td><td align="left">0.63</td><td align="left">0.64</td><td align="left">0.50</td><td align="left">0.56</td><td align="left">0.55</td><td align="left">0.57</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Female</td><td align="left">0.00</td><td align="left">0.24</td><td align="left">0.31</td><td align="left">0.41</td><td align="left">0.37</td><td align="left">0.36</td><td align="left">0.50</td><td align="left">0.44</td><td align="left">0.45</td><td align="left">0.43</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="11"><bold><italic>Plasmodium</italic></bold><bold> species</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left"><italic>&#x02003;P. falciparum</italic></td><td align="left">0.00</td><td align="left">0.19</td><td align="left">0.41</td><td align="left">0.48</td><td align="left">0.39</td><td align="left">0.37</td><td align="left">0.48</td><td align="left">0.52</td><td align="left">0.45</td><td align="left">0.50</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><italic>&#x02003;P. vivax</italic></td><td align="left">0.00</td><td align="left">0.74</td><td align="left">0.48</td><td align="left">0.34</td><td align="left">0.52</td><td align="left">0.53</td><td align="left">0.47</td><td align="left">0.33</td><td align="left">0.48</td><td align="left">0.35</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Mixed infection</td><td align="left">0.00</td><td align="left">0.05</td><td align="left">0.10</td><td align="left">0.17</td><td align="left">0.09</td><td align="left">0.10</td><td align="left">0.05</td><td align="left">0.13</td><td align="left">0.07</td><td align="left">0.13</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Other <italic>Plasmodium</italic></td><td align="left">0.00</td><td align="left">0.01</td><td align="left">0.00</td><td align="left">0.01</td><td align="left">0.00</td><td align="left">0.00</td><td align="left">0.00</td><td align="left">0.02</td><td align="left">0.00</td><td align="left">0.02</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="11"><bold>Age group (year old)</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x0003c;&#x02009;1</td><td align="left">0.00</td><td align="left">0.00</td><td align="left">0.01</td><td align="left">0.00</td><td align="left">0.02</td><td align="left">0.01</td><td align="left">0.05</td><td align="left">0.01</td><td align="left">0.04</td><td align="left">0.01</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;1&#x02014;&#x0003c;&#x02009;5</td><td align="left">0.00</td><td align="left">0.01</td><td align="left">0.04</td><td align="left">0.05</td><td align="left">0.10</td><td align="left">0.08</td><td align="left">0.19</td><td align="left">0.13</td><td align="left">0.15</td><td align="left">0.12</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;5&#x02013;9</td><td align="left">0.00</td><td align="left">0.03</td><td align="left">0.05</td><td align="left">0.07</td><td align="left">0.10</td><td align="left">0.12</td><td align="left">0.15</td><td align="left">0.13</td><td align="left">0.13</td><td align="left">0.13</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;10&#x02013;14</td><td align="left">0.00</td><td align="left">0.04</td><td align="left">0.07</td><td align="left">0.08</td><td align="left">0.10</td><td align="left">0.12</td><td align="left">0.10</td><td align="left">0.11</td><td align="left">0.10</td><td align="left">0.10</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;15&#x02013;64</td><td align="left">0.00</td><td align="left">0.89</td><td align="left" rowspan="2">0.82</td><td align="left">0.78</td><td align="left" rowspan="2">0.68</td><td align="left">0.65</td><td align="left" rowspan="2">0.51</td><td align="left">0.61</td><td align="left" rowspan="2">0.58</td><td align="left">0.62</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x0003e;&#x02009;64</td><td align="left">0.00</td><td align="left">0.02</td><td align="left">0.02</td><td align="left">0.02</td><td align="left">0.01</td><td align="left">0.01</td></tr></tbody></table></table-wrap></p><p id="Par82"><italic>P. malariae</italic>,<italic> P. ovale</italic>, and <italic>P.</italic>
<italic>knowlesi</italic> account for less than 2% of total cases. <italic>P. malariae</italic> and <italic>P.</italic>
<italic>ovale</italic> had been reported mostly from Eastern Indonesia, while <italic>P. knowlesi</italic> has been reported only in in Sumatra and Kalimantan islands. <italic>P. knowlesi</italic> is more likely to be detected in areas which have interrupted human malaria transmission, due to difficulties in diagnosis (see Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig3" ref-type="fig">3</xref>).<fig id="Fig3"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;3</label><caption><p>Distribution of <italic>P. malariae, P. ovale</italic> and<italic> P. knowlesi</italic> in Indonesia from studies and routine surveillance reports 2010&#x02013;2023. Note: <italic>P. ovale&#x000a0;</italic>reported outside eastern Indonesia such as in Sumatra, Java, Kalimantan, and Sulawesi were likely imported cases from Papua region. All districts have reported <italic>P. falciparum</italic> and/or <italic>P. vivax</italic></p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4355_Fig3_HTML" id="MO3"/></fig></p><p id="Par83">MoH data from 2023, show that the proportion of males infected with malaria was 57% overall, with a more skewed sex ratio at lower levels of endemicity, with males aged 15&#x02013;64&#x000a0;years old disproportionately affected. In high endemic areas, the proportion of malaria cases among females and children in the&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;1&#x02013;14-year-old group was also high but this proportion has decreased in recent years. In low endemic areas, malaria is concentrated in forest-related occupations, and among soldiers, police, civil servants, and students. In high endemic areas, malaria cases were common among students and the unemployed (see Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref> and Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig4" ref-type="fig">4</xref>).<fig id="Fig4"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;4</label><caption><p>Comparison of the proportion of malaria confirmed cases by occupational group per stratification of endemicity areas 2018 and 2022.&#x000a0;Source: MoH reports</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4355_Fig4_HTML" id="MO4"/></fig></p></sec><sec id="Sec10"><title>Overview of subnational malaria elimination progress</title><sec id="Sec11"><title>Methodology and indicators for subnational verification</title><p id="Par84">Every year Indonesia&#x02019;s NCEME conducts assessments based upon requests from districts and provinces using the WHO criteria noted above. Specific indicators are (1) no local transmission of any of the four human parasites for the preceding three consecutive years, (2) a positivity rate (PR)&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;5%, (3) an API&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;1 per 1000 person-years, and (4) eleven indicators, each with subsidiary elements applied separately to the district, health center, and hospitals, related to the strength of systems to prevent re-establishment [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>]. Most indicators focus on the details of surveillance and response, but financing, cross-border, and social aspects are also assessed. There are 88 sub-indicators or elements in all [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>] that then were expanded to 105 elements in 2023 for district verification. Province level verification requires assessment of four indicators and 51 elements [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR36">36</xref>]. Each is given a weighted score. The 2023 indicators and elements are listed in Additional File 1: Table S1 and S2. Briefly, to be eligible for consideration for certification, the district must meet three criteria: (1) Slide positivity rate (SPR)&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;5%, API&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;1%, and documented no indigenous cases over the past 3&#x000a0;years. The rationale for including SPR and API as composite indicators for malaria elimination assessment in addition to the main indicator of no local transmission for 3&#x000a0;years is to ensure that the districts meet the malaria program phase criteria adapted from the WHO manual on malaria program phases and milestones on the path to malaria elimination. The transition from the control phase to the pre-elimination phase is marked by SPR&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;5% in fever cases and the milestone for moving from the pre-elimination phase to the elimination phase is API&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;1 per 1000 person-years [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR37">37</xref>].</p><p id="Par85">Eligible districts are visited by a joint team from the MoH and the NCEME, with each subsidiary indicator checked and scored at district, health facility, and hospital level. If the three basic criteria are met, and if the overall score is at least 70%, then a recommendation that a certificate be issued can be made. The field team then reports to the Commission&#x02019;s assembly meeting which consists of standing members and ad hoc experts to review the report of the field team and to provide feedback to districts. The NCEME may or may not endorse the recommendation of the field team; both must agree for a recommendation for certification is move forward. There are instances where the NCEME has recommended that remedial action be taken before reconsideration for certification. Since many districts failed to pass the assessment, the MoH set up pre-assessment visits along with the provincial health office to support the districts in preparing the supporting documents, review all malaria case histories to clarify the case classifications, and advocate to district stakeholders for prevention re-establishment. This pre-assessment visit changed from in person to online during COVID-19 pandemic and has since continued to be done online [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR36">36</xref>].</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec12"><title>Progress achieving districts/provinces malaria-free status</title><p id="Par86">The first district to be certified by the MoH was Kepulauan Seribu of Jakarta province in 2013 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR38">38</xref>]. By 2017, 266 of 514 districts had been certified as free of indigenous malaria transmission [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR39">39</xref>], while by 2023, 389 districts have been certified (see Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab3" ref-type="table">3</xref>). In addition, the five provinces in the islands of Java and Bali had been also certified by the MoH as malaria-free, namely the provinces of East Java, Bali, West Java, and Banten. Three additional provinces are close to certification, but small outbreaks remain in the provinces of Yogyakarta, Bengkulu, and Riau. South Sumatra Province is preparing its validation request (see Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig5" ref-type="fig">5</xref>). No regional island groups have yet been verified [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>].
<table-wrap id="Tab3"><label>Table 3</label><caption><p>Number and proportion of districts stratified by endemicity level per year from 2010 to 2023.&#x000a0;Source: MoH report 2010&#x02013;2023</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left">Year</th><th align="left">No. and % of elimination districts</th><th align="left">No. and % of pre-elimination districts</th><th align="left">No. and % of moderate endemic districts</th><th align="left">No. and % of high endemic districts</th><th align="left">No. and % of hyper-endemic districts</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left"><bold>2010</bold></td><td align="left">0 (0.0)</td><td align="left">339 (66.0)</td><td align="left">87 (17.0)</td><td align="left">80 (15.4)</td><td align="left">7 (1.4)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>2011</bold></td><td align="left">0 (0.0)</td><td align="left">329 (64.0)</td><td align="left">96 (18.6)</td><td align="left">88 (17.2)</td><td align="left">1 (0.2)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>2012</bold></td><td align="left">0 (0.0)</td><td align="left">353 (68.7)</td><td align="left">82 (16.0)</td><td align="left">73 (14.1)</td><td align="left">6 (1.2)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>2013</bold></td><td align="left">1 (0.2)</td><td align="left">364 (70.8)</td><td align="left">77 (15.0)</td><td align="left">71 (13.8)</td><td align="left">1 (0.2)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>2014</bold></td><td align="left">213 (41.4)</td><td align="left">156 (30.4)</td><td align="left">87 (16.9)</td><td align="left">54 (10.5)</td><td align="left">4 (0.8)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>2015</bold></td><td align="left">232 (45.1)</td><td align="left">147 (28.6)</td><td align="left">90 (17.5)</td><td align="left">40 (7.8)</td><td align="left">5 (1.0)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>2016</bold></td><td align="left">247 (48.1)</td><td align="left">166 (32.3)</td><td align="left">60 (11.7)</td><td align="left">36 (7.0)</td><td align="left">5 (1.0)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>2017</bold></td><td align="left">266 (51.8)</td><td align="left">172 (33.5)</td><td align="left">37 (7.2)</td><td align="left">31 (6.0)</td><td align="left">8 (1.6)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>2018</bold></td><td align="left">285 (55.4)</td><td align="left">168 (32.7)</td><td align="left">33 (6.4)</td><td align="left">23 (4.5)</td><td align="left">5 (1.0)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>2019</bold></td><td align="left">300 (62.0)</td><td align="left">160 (31.1)</td><td align="left">31 (6.0)</td><td align="left">16 (3.1)</td><td align="left">7 (1.4)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>2020</bold></td><td align="left">318 (62.0)</td><td align="left">149 (29.0)</td><td align="left">23 (4.5)</td><td align="left">17 (3.3)</td><td align="left">7 (1.4)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>2021</bold></td><td align="left">347 (67.5)</td><td align="left">124 (24.1)</td><td align="left">17 (3.3)</td><td align="left">19 (3.7)</td><td align="left">7 (1.4)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>2022</bold></td><td align="left">372 (72.0)</td><td align="left">83 (16.1)</td><td align="left">30 (5.8)</td><td align="left">18 (3.5)</td><td align="left">11 (2.1)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>2023</bold></td><td align="left">389 (76.0)</td><td align="left">72 (14.0)</td><td align="left">26 (5.1)</td><td align="left">20 (3.9)</td><td align="left">7 (1.4)</td></tr></tbody></table></table-wrap><fig id="Fig5"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;5</label><caption><p>Maps of malaria incidence per 1000 person-years in Indonesia stratified by province for 2023 overlaid with the proportion of district/city achieving malaria elimination status as of 2023. Provinces with colored green have 100% or district/city with no malaria transmission. These provinces are in the process of being validated as having achieved malaria elimination status by the National Committee for Evaluation of Malaria Elimination (NCEME)</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4355_Fig5_HTML" id="MO5"/></fig></p><p id="Par87">Every year from 2015 onwards, at least 15 districts/municipalities have passed the assessment and have been granted a certificate as malaria-free. After the certification of Kepulauan Seribu district in 2013, in 2014 verification was performed by analysis of retrospective data from all districts that have not reported any malaria cases in the last 10&#x000a0;years from high-elevation or highly urbanized non-endemic districts. These 212 districts/municipalities were granted a certificate from the Minister of Health in 2014 and are mostly located in Java, Sumatra, Kalimantan, and Sulawesi (37).</p></sec><sec id="Sec13"><title>Decertification process and indicators</title><p id="Par88">Previously certified malaria-free districts which report outbreaks, including reports of indigenous transmission, are supported by province and national level staff to activate outbreak response interventions. Prior to 2022, no decertification process existed. As part of monitoring and evaluation to all malaria-free areas, a warning letter and decertification was finalized under the Minister Regulation No. 22/2022 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>] which refers to detailed technical guidelines released by the Director General of Diseases Control and Prevention 2023 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR36">36</xref>]. Certificate of malaria-free district or province will be withdrawn if transmission continues in the same foci with the same species of <italic>Plasmodium</italic> in three consecutive years, as it indicates the re-establishment of local transmission. A warning letter will be sent to districts or provinces&#x02019; political leaders if the malaria transmission continues for 2&#x000a0;years. Though two districts have failed to control outbreaks and eliminate transmission, the decertification process has not yet taken place, while the MoH sensitizes district and provincial authorities on the certification and decertification technical guidelines 2023 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR36">36</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec14"><title>Lessons learned in implementing subnational verification</title><p id="Par89">After more than 10&#x000a0;years implementing the subnational verification process, some lessons learnt can be taken from Indonesia. The verification process has evolved, and the tools were revised in 2017 and 2023 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR36">36</xref>]. The Indonesian MoH has implemented more detailed planning activities to prepare districts for verification. Malaria-free certificates are also seen as a district/province achievement, as the recipient of the certificate from the Minister of Health is a district or provincial political leader&#x02014;either the regent for a district or the governor for a province. As a result, subnational stakeholders are competing to prepare themselves to achieve elimination. Currently, the MoH is working with the Ministry of Home Affairs (MoHA) to ensure malaria activities are included in subnational planning documents and budgeting nomenclature under the local budget for control, elimination and prevention of re-establishment in malaria-free areas. This is a result of experience from many outbreaks that have occurred in malaria-free areas due to lack of funding and reduced commitment after receiving a malaria elimination certificate [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR40">40</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec15"><title>Overview of subnational control progress</title><p id="Par90">Over the past 13&#x000a0;years, the number of malaria cases decreased throughout Indonesia, except for the Papua region. According to MoH data from 2022 and 2023, this region contributed 92% out of the more than 400,000 total malaria cases reported during this period. Figures&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig6" ref-type="fig">6</xref> and <xref rid="Fig7" ref-type="fig">7</xref> depict changes in reported malaria incidence by province and district, respectively.<fig id="Fig6"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;6</label><caption><p>Maps of malaria incidence per 1000 person-years in Indonesia stratified by province for 1990, 2000, 2010, 2020, and 2023 showing progress in reduction malaria incidence in most provinces in Indonesia</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4355_Fig6_HTML" id="MO6"/></fig><fig id="Fig7"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;7</label><caption><p>Maps of malaria incidence per 1000 person-years in Indonesia stratified by district/municipality level year 2010, 2015, 2020, and 2023 showing the progress of subnational elimination</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4355_Fig7_HTML" id="MO7"/></fig></p><p id="Par91">In 1990, only the densely populated islands of Java and Bali had malaria incidence of less than 1 case per 1000 person-years. Elsewhere, incidence was generally above 5 cases per 1000 person-years, with Papua province or as it was then known as Irian Jaya province having the highest incidence of more than 100 per 1000 person-year, though these reports are of presumed cases. In the last 20&#x000a0;years, malaria incidence in West Papua, Maluku, North Maluku, and East Nusa Tenggara provinces declined markedly, with 14 districts in these provinces achieving elimination during the period 2020 to 2023.</p><p id="Par92">The number of districts with API&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;5 per 1000 person-years gradually declined from 72 in 2013 to 26 in 2023 with a similar reduction reported by districts with API between 1 and 5 per 1000 person-years from 77 in 2013 to 28 in 2023 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR41">41</xref>]. Though the number of cases increased significantly in the last decade in high endemic areas, the cases were more localized in eastern Indonesia, especially Papua province. Several factors contributed to increased reporting especially expanding case finding via community health workers and improvements in the reporting system as a part of universal access to malaria prevention, diagnosis, and treatment [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR42">42</xref>].</p><p id="Par93">Intensified passive and active case finding, especially in high endemic areas by improved reporting from the private sector also contributed [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR42">42</xref>], as did integrated reporting with antenatal care (ANC) and integrated management of childhood illness (IMCI) services in the last decade [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR43">43</xref>]. The number of suspected cases tested by private health facilities increased from 153,000 in 2018 to 244,000 in 2023 and contributed 13% of the total number of malaria cases nationwide in 2023. According to Indonesia&#x02019;s 2017 Demographic Health Survey (DHS), 27% of Indonesians overall and 35% of Papuans will not seek treatment when feverish [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR44">44</xref>]. To reach these people, the NMP in collaboration with the community society organization (CSO) Perdhaki as principal recipient (PR) of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM) Malaria initiated a community-based case finding effort in high endemic areas via deployment of 370 village malaria workers (VMWs) in Papua and East Nusa Tenggara. This initiative is supported by the Minister of Health Regulation No. 41/2018 which allows diagnosis and treatment to be carried out by VMWs [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR45">45</xref>]. This initiative was extended by training and deployment of 4200 VMWs in high endemic districts and over 100 forest malaria workers (FMWs) in moderate and low endemic areas [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR42">42</xref>]. Consequently, the number of suspected cases tested by laboratory examination mostly using rapid diagnostic test (RDT) via VMWs increased from 88,000 in 2019 to 881,000 in 2022. The number of positive cases detected by VMWs also increased from 8000 to 82,000 in the same period [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR42">42</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR46">46</xref>].</p><p id="Par94">Surveillance has been improved by the introduction of SISMAL, with reporting completeness increasing from 72% in 2019 to 95% in 2023. Further, the proportion of health facilities reporting increased from 74% in 2019 to 83% in 2023 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR47">47</xref>]. Underreporting issues prior to 2019 were noted, especially in Papua [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR48">48</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec16"><title>Progress in low endemic areas nearing elimination</title><p id="Par95">The number of districts with API&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;1 per 1000 person-years declined from 364 districts in 2013 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR41">41</xref>] to 72 districts in 2023 as is shown Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab3" ref-type="table">3</xref> [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>]. Progress by province is depicted in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig6" ref-type="fig">6</xref> whereas progress by district is shown in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig7" ref-type="fig">7</xref>. In 2023, of 72 low endemic districts, 20 districts reported no indigenous cases, 21 districts had&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;10 indigenous cases, 26 reported&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;100 indigenous cases and the remaining districts had&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;1000 indigenous cases. These indigenous cases were predominantly <italic>P. vivax</italic> in adult males and among mobile and migrant populations (MMPs) including forest workers (see Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref> and Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig4" ref-type="fig">4</xref>).</p></sec><sec id="Sec17"><title>Progress in maintaining malaria-free status</title><p id="Par96">Maintenance of malaria-free status is challenging due to high population movement and high receptivity of most rural districts. One district receiving a certificate in 2014 subsequently reported indigenous cases, and upon investigation these indigenous cases were <italic>P. knowlesi</italic> [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR49">49</xref>]. Table <xref rid="Tab4" ref-type="table">4</xref> shows the number of districts certified as malaria-free each year from 2010 to 2023, the number that later reported introduced or indigenous cases, and those that later reported cases of <italic>P.</italic>
<italic>knowlesi</italic>. These districts were categorized as having an outbreak by the NMP although only five district governments officially declared outbreaks. Of these districts, two districts have failed to contain the outbreak with subsequent re-establishment of local transmission as per WHO and Indonesian definitions.
<table-wrap id="Tab4"><label>Table 4</label><caption><p>Progress of subnational elimination showing number of districts and municipalities achieving elimination in comparison to the annual target, number of new elimination district, reported introduced/indigenous cases and reported cases of <italic>P. knowlesi</italic>.&#x000a0;Source: MoH report 2010&#x02013;2023</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left">Year</th><th align="left">Cumulative no. district/municipality target for elimination</th><th align="left">No. of new district/municipality verify as elimination status</th><th align="left">Cumulative no. of district/municipality achieve elimination status</th><th align="left">No. of elimination district reported introduced/indigenous cases</th><th align="left">No. of elimination district emerged Pk cases</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">2010</td><td align="left">11</td><td align="left">0</td><td align="left">0</td><td align="left">0</td><td align="left">0</td></tr><tr><td align="left">2013</td><td align="left">11</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">0</td><td align="left">0</td></tr><tr><td align="left">2014</td><td align="left">11</td><td align="left">212</td><td align="left">213</td><td align="left">2</td><td align="left">1</td></tr><tr><td align="left">2015</td><td align="left">225</td><td align="left">19</td><td align="left">232</td><td align="left">3</td><td align="left">0</td></tr><tr><td align="left">2016</td><td align="left">245</td><td align="left">15</td><td align="left">247</td><td align="left">2</td><td align="left">0</td></tr><tr><td align="left">2017</td><td align="left">265</td><td align="left">19</td><td align="left">266</td><td align="left">3</td><td align="left">0</td></tr><tr><td align="left">2018</td><td align="left">285</td><td align="left">19</td><td align="left">285</td><td align="left">14</td><td align="left">4</td></tr><tr><td align="left">2019</td><td align="left">300</td><td align="left">15</td><td align="left">300</td><td align="left">26</td><td align="left">7</td></tr><tr><td align="left">2020</td><td align="left">325</td><td align="left">18</td><td align="left">318</td><td align="left">17</td><td align="left">6</td></tr><tr><td align="left">2021</td><td align="left">345</td><td align="left">29</td><td align="left">347</td><td align="left">18</td><td align="left">6</td></tr><tr><td align="left">2022</td><td align="left">365</td><td align="left">25</td><td align="left">372</td><td align="left">33</td><td align="left">5</td></tr><tr><td align="left">2023</td><td align="left">385</td><td align="left">17</td><td align="left">389</td><td align="left">34</td><td align="left">11</td></tr><tr><td align="left">2024</td><td align="left">405</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">2025</td><td align="left">425</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">2026</td><td align="left">440</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">2027</td><td align="left">460</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">2028</td><td align="left">480</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">2029</td><td align="left">500</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">2030</td><td align="left">514</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr></tbody></table></table-wrap></p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec18"><title>Discussion</title><p id="Par97">While progress in reducing transmission over the past 70&#x000a0;years is evident, challenges requiring new approaches have also come to light, requiring new strategies. Most progress in the past has been a result of application of LLINs or IRS for vector control coupled with good diagnosis and treatment. While this has worked well in most of Indonesia, it has been insufficient in lowland Papua and inadequate for mobile populations and for zoonotic malaria.</p><p id="Par98">Though the number of cases reported by the MoH increased during the COVID-19 pandemic despite reductions in testing, additional districts achieved elimination status during this period. As of 2023, of 514 districts and 38 provinces, 389 districts and five provinces had been verified as malaria-free. Most of this progress was in western and central Indonesia, where the health infrastructure, social economy, and general development are more advanced than in the eastern part of the country [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR50">50</xref>].</p><sec id="Sec19"><title>New potential strategies in high endemic areas</title><p id="Par99">Improvements in diagnosis and reporting between 2015 and 2023 were apparent as the gap between WHO estimates of burden and MoH reports narrowed by 50% during this period [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR51">51</xref>]. Significant numbers of cases were detected in the community and in the private sector, indicating that both play a pivotal role both in high endemic areas [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR47">47</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR52">52</xref>], especially VMWs in high endemic and in forest transmission settings [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR52">52</xref>]. The VMWs work not only to test and treat but also to educate the community on malaria prevention and treatment compliance. Most VMWs are funded by the GFATM for training, RDTs, cadre kits, and local transport for house-to-house visits. In addition, a small supplement from local government or village funds have been allocated to support VMW activities (source: Perdhaki report to GFATM). The malaria program of Indonesia needs a comprehensive strategy to replace GFATM support in the future.</p><p id="Par100">Improvement of malaria recording and reporting in the last 5&#x000a0;years shows a reduction in under-reporting cases. In the long run, the MoH&#x02019;s goal is for cases in the community to be tracked via SISMAL [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR47">47</xref>]. Prior to 1966, the NMP relied on small-scale surveys to assess malaria burden, along with mass blood surveys (MBS) (mass screening and treatment, as per WHO guideline) or mass fever survey (MFS) until 2009 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR53">53</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR54">54</xref>]. However, a study conducted in East Nusa Tenggara showed that MBS had no impact on malaria incidence [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR55">55</xref>]. After 2009, limited MBS/MFS has been done only in areas with no VMWs or health facilities to estimate malaria burden. The NMP is now relying on routine surveillance data for tracking progress.</p><p id="Par101">Malaria cases in Indonesia are most common in lowland Papua. Outside of Papua, cases are scattered among people engaged in forest-related activities and mining. In high endemic areas, the cases are predominantly <italic>P.</italic>
<italic>falciparum</italic>, with infection in younger ages with a similar proportion of male and female cases, indicating that transmission is occurring in villages among sedentary populations. These trends are also apparent in many countries in Africa [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR56">56</xref>] and in neighboring Papua New Guinea [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR57">57</xref>]. In this context, the NMP implements universal access to prevention, diagnosis, and treatment, but progress has been slow. The need for additional interventions to reduce transmission in lowland Papua is evident. Some chemoprevention interventions pioneered in Africa in high transmission settings might be deployed in lowland Papua targeting sub-populations (intermittent preventive treatment for pregnant women/IPTp, intermittent preventive treatment for school children/IPTsc, perennial malaria chemoprevention/PMC) to reduce morbidity [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR58">58</xref>]. The proportion of cases among children between 1 and 5&#x000a0;years old has remained stable in Papua over the past decade. While no special intervention is aimed at this age group, a burden analysis to determine the suitability of new malaria vaccines is needed. However, these <italic>P. falciparum</italic> vaccines may have no impact on <italic>P. vivax</italic> malaria, nor will they contribute transmission reduction.</p><p id="Par102">Papua suffers from high prevalence of stunting in children under 5&#x000a0;years between 24.8 and 39.4%, while the same group has a prevalence of anemia of 23.8%. Further, 27.7% of pregnant women were anemic in 2023 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR33">33</xref>]. Although the relationship between malaria and stunting is complex and inconclusive [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR59">59</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR60">60</xref>], malaria interventions can be integrated into stunting reduction program that target young children and pregnant women in Papua, as stunting reduction is a Presidential priority [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR61">61</xref>]. IPTp with dihydroartemisinin&#x02013;piperaquine (DHA-PPQ) in Papua and Sumba in 2013&#x02013;2016 showed a 41% reduction prevalence of malaria infection at delivery, a 78% reduction in the incidence of clinical malaria during pregnancy, and significantly higher mean hemoglobin levels at birth in infants. The beneficial effect of IPTp was higher in Papua than in lower-burden Sumba [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR62">62</xref>]. The results of this study suggest that initiating IPTp in Papua may be beneficial. In contrast with the WHO-recommended sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP), the effect of IPTp using DHA-PPA had significantly lower risks of clinical malaria during pregnancy and placental malaria, though effects on low birth weight and adverse birth outcomes were minimal [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR63">63</xref>].</p><p id="Par103">In addition to a malaria burden, Papua also bears a high burden of lymphatic filariasis (LF), leprosy and yaws as well as HIV/AIDS [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>]. To address this complex burden, the MoH launched a health transformation agenda in 2021 with six pillars including transformation of primary services, referral services, health resilience systems, health financing systems, health human resources, and health technology. Most malaria services are part of integrated primary healthcare services in Indonesia known as &#x0201c;<italic>Integrasi Layanan Primer</italic> (ILP) using a life-cycle approach under the umbrella of transformation of primary health services. Implementation of the new integrated primary healthcare services was piloted in nine primary healthcare centers (PHCs) in 2022, with scale-up continuing [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR64">64</xref>]. Further, of the 26 districts in Indonesia still carrying out mass drug administration (MDA) for LF, 20 are in Papua, raising the question as whether combination of MDA for LF and MDA for malaria or LLINs distribution or other drug-based interventions is appropriate or feasible.</p><p id="Par104">Indonesia straddles two biogeographic regions, with the malaria vectors in eastern Indonesia showing a greater propensity to feed on humans than those in the western part of the country [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR65">65</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR66">66</xref>]. Vectors in the western and central regions are more easily controlled with LLINs/IRS, or larvae source management [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR67">67</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR68">68</xref>]. The higher vectorial capacity of the Papuan vectors, including <italic>An. farauti s.l</italic>,<italic> An. koliensis</italic>,<italic> An. hinoserum</italic>,<italic> An. bancrofti</italic>,<italic> An. karwari</italic>, and <italic>An. punctulatus group</italic> [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR65">65</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR66">66</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR69">69</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR71">71</xref>], makes control more difficult. These vectors bite both indoors and outdoors and may begin to feed before people have gone to sleep. Some of the vectors are peridomestic, with habitat positivity index for <italic>Anopheles</italic> larvae was 33.7%, with around 93.67%&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;3.89% <italic>Anopheles</italic> positive habitats in residential areas or near houses [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR71">71</xref>].</p><p id="Par105">The primary vector control intervention in Indonesian Papua is LLIN distribution with small scale IRS [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR72">72</xref>]. While mass distribution of LLINs showed positive effects on malaria prevalence, they are insufficient in themselves to cause the transmission to decrease to very low levels in the context of Papua. Some of this is due to the inherent limitation of the intervention when transmission in high, but recent data from both PNG and Indonesia bring into doubt the long-term durability of LLINs. In Jayapura district of Papua in the clear decreases on prevalence were observed during the first 2&#x000a0;years post-distribution, but increases were observed in the third year (Sunarto P, district health office (DHO) Jayapura, personal communication). Analysis conducted by Indonesian researchers in 2019&#x02013;2022 showed that nets lost efficacy after 2&#x000a0;years [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR73">73</xref>]. These results are consistent with those found in neighboring PNG [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR74">74</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR76">76</xref>]. Despite this evidence, the GFATM still adheres to the WHO guidelines stating that LLINs may be replaced after 3&#x000a0;years [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR77">77</xref>].</p><p id="Par106">Even if LLINs were replaced every 2&#x000a0;years, additional interventions are needed in Papua to reduce transmission. Many habitats are located near houses, implying that house screening and environmental management may be suitable [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR71">71</xref>]. Indonesia was a pioneer of &#x0201c;species sanitation,&#x0201d; or environmental management, in the era before independence [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR78">78</xref>]. Snellen reviewed the success and failure of sanitation projects at 46 locations in Indonesia in 1929, mostly in Java, Sumatra and few in Sulawesi and one in Tanah Merah of Papua region. The main vectors in the review were <italic>An. sundaicus</italic>,<italic> An. aconitus</italic>, and <italic>An. maculatus</italic> with the interventions such as filling, draining, irrigation system management, and construction of canals. These interventions contributed to reductions in spleen index and mortality [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>]. Similar successes in the use of environment management are documented from both Europe and the Americas [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR78">78</xref>].</p><p id="Par107">In more recent times, Indonesia applied community-based environmental management to reduce malaria transmission in South Halmahera District in North Maluku in eastern Indonesia [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR39">39</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR79">79</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR81">81</xref>]. The main vectors in this district were <italic>An. farauti</italic> and <italic>An. punctulatus</italic> [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR65">65</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR82">82</xref>]. As a result of this intervention, malaria incidence declined from 24 in 2008 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR81">81</xref>] to 9.9 in 2010, 2.9 in 2015 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR80">80</xref>], and 0.2 per 1000 person-years in 2023 (source: SISMAL). A similar initiative in Papua targeting larval habitats is appropriate, but implementation is slow due to the necessity of cross-sectoral coordination.</p><p id="Par108">In 2023, NMP launched an acceleration plan for nine districts/municipalities in the Papua region with API&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;100 called TOKEN (<italic>temukan</italic>/find, <italic>obati</italic>/treat, and <italic>kendalikan</italic> vector/vector control), which incorporates lessons learned from North Maluku. This initiative was scaled up to 14 districts at the end of 2024. Interventions include improvement in coverage of malaria diagnosis and treatment via village malaria workers, collaboration with the private sector, and vector control using LLINs supplemented by larval source management (LSM). After these core interventions are put in place, additional interventions may also be implemented such as MDA, IPTp, reactive case detection (RACD) for household member of index cases, response to clusters of cases to interrupt active local transmission, and directly observed treatment (DOTs) for <italic>P. vivax</italic> patients [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR83">83</xref>]. Significant domestic funding will be needed if this initiative is to succeed, but as Indonesia&#x02019;s economy expands and moves towards upper middle-income status, additional domestic funding ought to be available [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR84">84</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec20"><title>New potential strategies in low endemic areas nearing elimination</title><p id="Par109">In contrast to Papua, western and central Indonesia show a different pattern of malaria epidemiology, with much <italic>P. vivax</italic> and many cases in adult males and in MMPs, military, and police forces, and those engaged in forest-related occupations. This pattern is consistent with other countries in the Asia&#x02013;Pacific region moving towards malaria elimination [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR85">85</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR86">86</xref>]. To date, interventions have focused on LLINs and testing and treating. Some districts have FMWs for better outreach for testing and treatment. In the future, Indonesia may implement interventions pioneered in the Mekong region via provision of a forest malaria package intervention including a long-lasting insecticidal hammock net or individual sized LLINs, topical mosquito repellent, an intermittent preventive treatment for forest goers (IPTf), mass/targeted drug administration (M/TDA), or biweekly or monthly active fever screening (AFS) via mobile clinic or FMWs along with health promotion [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR87">87</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR91">91</xref>]. The NMP Indonesia in collaboration with WHO and Human Initiative Foundation piloted a small scale 2 rounds of TDA, 3 rounds of IPTf and biweekly active fever screening in three districts of East Kalimantan Province, which demonstrated a reduction of malaria incidence compared to the baseline data [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR92">92</xref>]. Scale-up will require additional funding, particularly since the unit cost per case is very high for these interventions [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR93">93</xref>]. In addition, as some MMPs carry out illegal activities or quasi-legal activities, they may be difficult to reach by health authorities [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR94">94</xref>]. Mapping of MMPs in Indonesia is ongoing to better understand their distribution and characteristics so that malaria elimination may be achieved for this group [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR95">95</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec21"><title>New potential strategies in malaria-free districts</title><p id="Par110">While more than 75% of Indonesia&#x02019;s districts and municipalities have been declared malaria free, in recent years several of these districts had outbreaks (with five outbreaks officially declared by local governments) and two districts suffering from re-establishment of transmission. This situation is similar to other elimination areas, such as in neighboring Timor-Leste which detected malaria transmission in 2020, but the country managed to halt transmission [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR29">29</xref>]. The USA and European countries that have eliminated malaria long ago also still occasionally report small outbreaks [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR96">96</xref>], indicating the need to maintain a robust surveillance system and capability for rapid response.</p><p id="Par111">In most instances, resurgences of malaria are related to weakening of malaria control rather than drug or insecticide resistance. Factors contributing to weakened programs include funding shortages (54%), complacency and other issues coupled with poor execution (47%), war or disaster (25%), purposeful cessation of control activities (25%), or community non-cooperation (10%) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR97">97</xref>]. In Rokan Hilir district of Riau province, inadequate malaria control led to a malaria outbreak in 2019 even though the district had been certified as malaria-free in 2018. The outbreak was compounded by a lack of commitment and funding, including lack of health workers for malaria who at that time were focused on responding to COVID-19 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR40">40</xref>].</p><p id="Par112">In Indonesia, receptivity and vulnerability are generally high, due to prevalence of mosquito habitat and high population mobility. Given this, the districts need to decide whether to continue LLINs distribution, even in the face of importation from Papua or malaria-endemic areas outside of Indonesia. Most districts and the current policy in fact chose to scale back LLINs distribution. However, WHO recommends that in malaria-free areas, the scale-back of vector control should be based on a detailed analysis that includes assessment of the receptivity and vulnerability, strength of the disease surveillance system, and capacity for case management and vector control [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR98">98</xref>].</p><p id="Par113">As human malaria has been eliminated, several districts in Sumatra and Kalimantan have begun to report increasing numbers of <italic>P. knowlesi</italic>. One rural municipality detected a cluster of indigenous cases of malaria after receiving a malaria-free certificate, only to eventually find that all cases were <italic>P. knowlesi</italic> [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR49">49</xref>]. With improved detection capabilities, the number of districts reporting <italic>P. knowlesi</italic> cases increased over the last 5&#x000a0;years [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR99">99</xref>], even if official MoH statistics may not reflect this. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the number of <italic>P</italic>. <italic>knowlesi</italic> confirmed cases declined due to a reduction of case finding activity in general and the focusing of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) capacity for COVID-19 detection. NMP Indonesia has established the following case definitions for <italic>P. knowlesi</italic>: (1) A suspected <italic>P. knowlesi</italic> case is a person with malaria-like symptoms and signs plus risk of contact with monkeys, (2) A probable <italic>P. knowlesi</italic> case is a suspected <italic>P. knowlesi</italic> case with <italic>P. knowlesi</italic>-like parasite morphology in a blood smear, and (3) A confirmed <italic>P. knowlesi</italic> case is the positive <italic>P. knowlesi</italic> case with PCR confirmation [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR100">100</xref>]. Although in Indonesia, <italic>P. knowlesi</italic> cases are not included in the criteria for elimination, the upward trend of <italic>P. knowlesi</italic> cases in Malaysia to over four thousand cases a year poses a threat to malaria elimination [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR101">101</xref>]. This phenomenon might also occur in Indonesia, especially in Sumatra and Kalimantan where vectors, monkeys, and humans overlap, and deforestation and fragmentation is ongoing [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR49">49</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR99">99</xref>].</p><p id="Par114">Indonesia does not as yet have a specific strategy for control of <italic>P. knowlesi</italic>, except surveillance and case management [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>]. While frameworks for control have been proposed, only Malaysia has performed outdoor residual spraying (ORS) in an effort to control <italic>P. knowlesi</italic> [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR102">102</xref>]. LLINs and IRS may have a little effect on transmission of <italic>P. knowlesi</italic> due to their exophagic biting behavior [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR103">103</xref>]. Other vector control measures that might be used for outdoor biting are LSM, personal protection using topical repellents, insecticide-treated clothing, and spatial repellents [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR104">104</xref>]. Better understanding of macaque behavior and roosting patterns might facilitate control of zoonotic malaria.</p></sec><sec id="Sec22"><title>Challenges associated with elimination of P. vivax</title><p id="Par115"><italic>P. vivax</italic> is common throughout Indonesia, with the proportion of <italic>P. vivax</italic> cases increasing as endemicity declines primarily due to frequent relapse and poor treatment compliance for 14-day low dose of primaquine (PQ) for radical cure [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR105">105</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR107">107</xref>]. This is especially difficult in Papua which has Chesson strains which relapse repeatedly and require a higher dose of PQ [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR108">108</xref>]. In Indonesia&#x02019;s national treatment protocol, <italic>P. vivax</italic> is treated by low dose of 14-day PQ (0.25/mg/kg/day) and for relapsed cases the dosage is 0.5&#x000a0;mg/kg/day 14-day PQ [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR109">109</xref>]. The new WHO recommendation is to administer short-course standard PQ 0.5&#x000a0;mg/kg/day for 7&#x000a0;days with pre-identified glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) status [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR58">58</xref>] to improve treatment compliance.</p><p id="Par116">A study in Hanura district of Lampung province and Tanjung Leidong of North Sumatra province concluded that high dose 7-day primaquine (1&#x000a0;mg/kg/day) was well tolerated and non-inferior to 14-day primaquine (0.5&#x000a0;mg/kg/day) in patients with normal G6PD [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR110">110</xref>]. In Mimika district of Papua region, a study showed that supervised treatment of PQ on alternate days with 0.5&#x000a0;mg/kg/day for 14&#x000a0;days resulted in significantly improved efficacy with a 77% reduction in the risk of any <italic>P. vivax</italic> recurrence over 6&#x000a0;months [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR111">111</xref>].</p><p id="Par117">In Indonesia, just launched nationwide health screening called as &#x0201c;<italic>Pemeriksaan Kesehatan Gratis</italic> (PKG)&#x0201d; in February 2025 that included G6PD testing for newborns [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR112">112</xref>]. This initiative aims to improve disease prevention and health outcome, especially for <italic>P. vivax</italic> cases that G6PD test allowing for early detection of hyperbilirubinemia and safe use of anti-relapses malarial drugs [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR58">58</xref>]. A survey showed that the prevalence of G6PD deficiency in neonates was 7.39% in males and 6.95% in females [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR113">113</xref>]. Among all populations including school children, the prevalence of G6PD deficiency has been reported between 1.2 and 16.4% [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR113">113</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR116">116</xref>]. Screening using point-of-care G6PD tests is needed if high-dose PQ treatment is to be implemented. Currently, there are four brands of G6PD test available in the government of Indonesia procurement e-catalog. As yet, however, G6PD testing for <italic>P. vivax</italic> cases is not mandatory [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR109">109</xref>], pending cost analysis and requisite training of health staff.</p></sec><sec id="Sec23"><title>Climate change</title><p id="Par118">While many districts attained elimination status in recent years, some low endemic districts reported increases in locally acquired cases in 2022 and 2023 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>]. While some of these increases may be due to better surveillance or poor-quality control, climate change is a possible factor. Vector-borne diseases are affected by environmental and climatic factors, rendering them sensitive to climate change [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR117">117</xref>]. In many regions, malaria is a seasonal or epidemic disease that responds to short-term changes in rainfall, humidity, and temperature [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR118">118</xref>]. These factors combined will affect vectorial capacity [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR117">117</xref>]. A study examined data on temperature, windspeed, relative humidity, and precipitation taken from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Langley Research Center (LaRC) POWER Project alongside malaria incidence rates at subnational level extracted from the Malaria Atlas Project dataset showed a statistically significant relationship between a latent climate variable and malaria incidence [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR119">119</xref>]. Another study conducted in East Kalimantan province showed that temperature, humidity, and rainfall 2014&#x02013;2020 revealed that humidity was related to the malaria occurrence, while temperature and rainfall frequency were inversely related to the malaria occurrence in each month. The peak of malaria transmission and cases in East Kalimantan was associated with seasonal patterns in Indonesia, in February for <italic>P. falciparum</italic> and December to February for <italic>P. vivax</italic>. A decrease in malaria cases occurred in 2016 associated with a strong El Nino event that occurred from May 2015 to February 2016 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR120">120</xref>].</p><p id="Par119">The government of Indonesia endorsed legislation and plans for climate change mitigation encompassing 16 ministries [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR121">121</xref>]. For the health sector, dengue, malaria and pneumonia are prioritized based on disease epidemiology [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR121">121</xref>]. WHO projects that Indonesia&#x02019;s population at risk for malaria will double in the coming years [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR122">122</xref>]. Furthermore, WHO projects direct effects of climate change on malaria transmission intensity, range, and reintroduction of malaria transmission to previously malaria-free areas [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR117">117</xref>]. The MoH in preparing an action plan for climate change mitigation, with support from WHO. The first initiative for dengue and malaria will be incorporated later [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR123">123</xref>].</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec24"><title>Conclusion</title><p id="Par120">While Indonesia has made good progress, challenges remain if the country is to achieve elimination by the 2030. While funding from the GFATM has allowed the malaria program to operate in somewhat vertical manner, merging malaria services with other programs will be essential in the future, particularly with regard to surveillance in elimination areas and with regard to targeting of at-risk population is low-endemic areas. Careful consideration will need to be given before vector control interventions are withdrawn in elimination areas, with judicious assessment of both risk of importation of parasites (vulnerability) and risk of subsequent transmission (receptivity). We found that not infrequently districts that have attained elimination status fail to maintain good surveillance and response systems, leading to outbreaks. Thus, the importance of political commitment and sustained funding to prevent re-establishment must be emphasized as districts achieve elimination status. Papua presents a special challenge, with its high level of endemicity, anthropophilic vectors, and year-round rainfall. In this region, multiple overlapping interventions will be required in a difficult context. While climate change will likely increase the areas of risk of transmission into highland Papua, its effects in the rest of the country are difficult to predict but may be profound.</p></sec><sec id="Sec26" sec-type="supplementary-material"><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>
<supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM1"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4355_MOESM1_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Additional file 1: Table S1. Indicators and elements used to assess whether a district may be granted a malaria-free certificate.&#x000a0;Table S2. Indicators and elements used to assess whether a province may be granted a malaria-free certificate</p></caption></media></supplementary-material></p></sec></body><back><glossary><title>Abbreviations</title><def-list><def-item><term>ANC</term><def><p id="Par17">Antenatal care</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>API</term><def><p id="Par18">Annual parasite incidence</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ATSBs</term><def><p id="Par19">Attractive targeted sugar baits</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CSO</term><def><p id="Par20">Community society organization</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>DHA-PPQ</term><def><p id="Par21">Dihydroartemisinin&#x02013;piperaquine</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>DHS</term><def><p id="Par22">Demographic Health Survey</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>EAS</term><def><p id="Par23">East Asia Summit</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>EWARS</term><def><p id="Par24">Early warning and response system</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>FMWs</term><def><p id="Par25">Forest malaria workers</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>G6PD</term><def><p id="Par26">Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>GFATM</term><def><p id="Par27">Global Fund for AIDS, TB, and malaria</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>GTS</term><def><p id="Par28">Global technical strategy</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>H.E</term><def><p id="Par29">His excellency</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ILP</term><def><p id="Par30">Integrasi layanan primer/integrated primary healthcare services</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>IMCI</term><def><p id="Par31">Integrated management childhood illness</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>IPTf</term><def><p id="Par32">Intermittent preventive treatment for forest goers</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>IPTp</term><def><p id="Par33">Intermittent preventive treatment for pregnant women</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>IPTsc</term><def><p id="Par34">Intermittent preventive treatment in school-aged children</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>IRS</term><def><p id="Par35">Indoor residual spraying</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>KOPEM</term><def><p id="Par36"><italic>Komando Operasi Pembasmian Malaria</italic>/National Malaria Eradication Services</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>LF</term><def><p id="Par37">Lymphatic filariasis</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>LLINs</term><def><p id="Par38">Long-lasting insecticide treated nets</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>LSM</term><def><p id="Par39">Larval source management</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MBS</term><def><p id="Par40">Mass blood screening</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MDA</term><def><p id="Par41">Mass drug administration</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MFS</term><def><p id="Par42">Mass fever screening</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MMPs</term><def><p id="Par43">Mobile and migrant populations</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MoH</term><def><p id="Par44">Ministry of Health</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MoHA</term><def><p id="Par45">Ministry of Home Affairs</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>NCEME</term><def><p id="Par46">National committee for evaluation of malaria elimination/<italic> Komisi Penilaian Eliminasi Malaria</italic></p></def></def-item><def-item><term>NMP</term><def><p id="Par47">National malaria program</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>NTDs</term><def><p id="Par48">Neglected tropical diseases</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ORS</term><def><p id="Par49">Outdoor residual spraying</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PMC</term><def><p id="Par50">Perennial malaria chemoprevention</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PPP</term><def><p id="Par51">Public private partnership</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PQ</term><def><p id="Par52">Primaquine</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PR</term><def><p id="Par53">Principal recipient</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>RACD</term><def><p id="Par54">Reactive case detection</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>RDT</term><def><p id="Par55">Rapid diagnostic test</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>SISMAL</term><def><p id="Par56"><italic>S</italic><italic>ystem informasi malaria</italic>/Malaria information system</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>SP</term><def><p id="Par57">Sulfadoxine&#x02013;pyrimethamine</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>TB</term><def><p id="Par58">Tuberculosis</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>TDA</term><def><p id="Par59">Targeted drug administration</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>TOKEN</term><def><p id="Par60">Temukan, obati dan kendalikan vector/find, treat and vector control</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>VMWs</term><def><p id="Par61">Village malaria workers</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>WHA</term><def><p id="Par62">World Health Assembly</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>WHO</term><def><p id="Par63">World Health Organization</p></def></def-item></def-list></glossary><fn-group><fn><p><bold>Publisher's Note</bold></p><p>Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.</p></fn></fn-group><ack><title>Acknowledgements
</title><p>Dr Ferdinand J Laihad, Dr Lukman Hakim, Dr Risintha Premaratne, Dr Rakesh Mani Rastogi, Dr Abdisalan Noor and Dr Li Xiao Hong provided data and reports from Indonesia, and substantially contributed to the discussion of the malaria situation in Indonesia.</p><sec id="FPar1"><title>Disclaimer</title><p id="Par121">Herdiana Herdiana and Ajib Diptyanusa are members of the World Health Organization. Hellen Dewi Prameswari, Riskha Tiara Puspadewi, Minerva Theodora and Dedy Supriyanto are members of the Indonesia Ministry of Health. The authors alone are responsible for the views expressed in this publication and they do not necessarily represent the decisions, policy, or views of the World Health Organization and the Ministry of Health.</p></sec></ack><notes notes-type="author-contribution"><title>Authors' contributions
</title><p>HH, HDP and WH conceived and designed the review. HH, RTP, SBF collected, validated, and interpretated data. HH, AD, SBF, RTP and WH were involved in data analysis and interpretation. HH and WH drafted the manuscript. HDP, RTP, AD, MT, SBF and DS critically reviewed the manuscript for important intellectual content. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.</p></notes><notes notes-type="funding-information"><title>Funding</title><p>Malaria program in Indonesia is funded by the Government of Indonesia, and the Global Fund through the Ministry of Health and WHO.</p></notes><notes notes-type="data-availability"><title>Data availability
</title><p>The dataset that supports the findings of this article are available and can be easily be made available on request, when required. The surveillance data are also available from the Malaria Working Group of the Indonesia Ministry of Health, and the request for data access can be directed to the Ministry of Health, Republic of Indonesia.</p></notes><notes><title>Declarations</title><notes id="FPar2"><title>Ethics approval and consent to participate</title><p id="Par122">Not applicable.</p></notes><notes id="FPar3"><title>Consent for publication</title><p id="Par123">Not applicable.</p></notes><notes id="FPar4" notes-type="COI-statement"><title>Competing interests
</title><p id="Par124">The authors declare no competing interests.
</p></notes></notes><ref-list id="Bib1"><title>References</title><ref id="CR1"><label>1.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Departemen Kesehatan. Keputusan Menteri Kesehatan Republik Indonesia Nomor 293/MENKES/SK/IV/2009 28 April 2009 tentang Eliminasi Malaria di Indonesia. Jakarta: Direktorat Pemberantasan Penyakit Bersumber Binatang, Departemen Kesehatan Indonesia; 2009.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR2"><label>2.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">APLMA, APMEN. Indonesia dashboard 2020. <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://aplma.s3.ap-southeast-1.amazonaws.com/aplma/assets/gNsb8_OU/dashboard_country_indonesia_apr29.pdf">https://aplma.s3.ap-southeast-1.amazonaws.com/aplma/assets/gNsb8_OU/dashboard_country_indonesia_apr29.pdf</ext-link>. Accessed 15 Sep 2023.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR3"><label>3.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Pemerintah Republik Indonesia. Undang-Undang Republik Indonesia No. 22 Tahun 1999 tentang Pemerintahan Daerah. Jakarta: Pemerintah Republik Indonesia; 1999.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR4"><label>4.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Pemerintah Republik Indonesia. Undang-undang (UU) Nomor 32 Tahun 2004 tentang Pemerintahan Daerah. Jakarta: Pemerintah Republik Indonesia; 2004.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR5"><label>5.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Gadjong AA. Pemerintahan Daerah: Kajian Politik Dan Hukum. 1st edition. Ciawi ,Bogor: Ghalia Indonesia; 2007.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR6"><label>6.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Pemerintah Republik Indonesia. Undang-undang (UU) Nomor 23 Tahun 2014 tentang Pemerintahan Daerah. Jakarta: Pemerintah Republik Indonesia; 2014.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR7"><label>7.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Sutmuller PM, Setiono I. Diagnostic on Evidence-based Public Policy Formulation under Decentralisation: Final Report. Australian &#x02013; Indonesia Partnership. Revitalising Indonesia&#x02019;s Knowledge Sector for Development. Canberra: Australian Government Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade; 2011.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR8"><label>8.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Mahendradhata Y, Trisnantoro L, Listyadewi S, Soewondo P, Marthias T, Harimurti P, et al. The Republic of Indonesia health system review. New Delhi: World Health Organization, Regional Office for South-East Asia; 2017.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR9"><label>9.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Pemerintah Republik Indonesia. Undang-undang (UU) Nomor 17 Tahun 2023 tentang Kesehatan. Jakarta: Pemerintah Republik Indonesia; 2023.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR10"><label>10.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">World Health Organization. Regional Office for South-East Asia. Progress towards 0. Malaria-Free South-East Asia: 2010&#x02013;2018. New Delhi: WHO SEARO; 2020.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR11"><label>11.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division. World Population Prospects 2022: Summary of Results. New York, USA: United Nations. UN DESA/POP/2022/TR/NO. 3; 2022.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR12"><label>12.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Keputusan Menteri Kesehatan Republik Indonesia Nomor 131/MENKES/SK/III/2012 Tanggal 21 Maret 2012 tentang Forum Nasional Gerakan Berantas Kembali Malaria (Gebrak Malaria). Jakarta: Kementerian Kesehatan Republik Indonesia; 2012.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR13"><label>13.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> WHO. A framework for malaria elimination. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2017.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR14"><label>14.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Peraturan Menteri Kesehatan Republik Indonesia Nomor 22 Tahun 2022 Tentang Penanggulangan Malaria. Jakarta: Kementerian Kesehatan RI; 2022.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR15"><label>15.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> WHO. Preparing for certification of malaria elimination, second edition. Geneva: World Health Organization. Licence: CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 IGO.; 2022.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR16"><label>16.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Direktorat Jenderal Pencegahan dan Pengendalian Penyakit. Keputusan Direktur Jenderal P2P Nomor: HK.02.02/IV/1813/2017 Tanggal 17 Juli 2017 Petunjuk Teknis Penilaian Eliminasi Malaria. Jakarta: Kementerian Kesehatan RI; 2017.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR17"><label>17.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Directorate of Statistical Dissemination, editor. Statistik Indonesia 2023 (Statistical Yearbook of Indonesia 2023). Jakarta: Badan Pusat Statistik; 2023.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR18"><label>18.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Pemerintah Republik Indonsia. Undang-Undang Republik Indonesia No. 29 Tahun 2022 tentang Pembentukan Provinsi Papua Barat Daya. Jakarta: Pemerintah Republik Indonesia; 2022.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR19"><label>19.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">World Bank; Asian Development Bank. Climate Risk Profile: Indonesia (2021). Washington DC: The World Bank Group and Asian Development Bank; 2021</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR20"><label>20.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR20" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>van der Brug</surname><given-names>PH</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Malaria in Batavia in the 18th century</article-title><source>Trop Med Int Health</source><year>1997</year><volume>2</volume><fpage>892</fpage><lpage>902</lpage><?supplied-pmid 9315048?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">9315048</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR20" publication-type="journal">van der Brug PH. Malaria in Batavia in the 18th century. Trop Med Int Health. 1997;2:892&#x02013;902.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">9315048</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR21"><label>21.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR21" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Elyazar</surname><given-names>IRF</given-names></name><name><surname>Hay</surname><given-names>SI</given-names></name><name><surname>Baird</surname><given-names>JK</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Malaria distribution, prevalence, drug resistance and control in Indonesia</article-title><source>Adv Parasitol</source><year>2011</year><volume>74</volume><fpage>41</fpage><lpage>175</lpage><?supplied-pmid 21295677?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21295677</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR21" publication-type="journal">Elyazar IRF, Hay SI, Baird JK. Malaria distribution, prevalence, drug resistance and control in Indonesia. Adv Parasitol. 2011;74:41&#x02013;175.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21295677</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR22"><label>22.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Malaria control program in Indonesia ((Paper submitted by the Government of Indonesia). World Health Organization: Regional Committee Document SEA/RC28/9; 1975.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR23"><label>23.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR23" publication-type="book"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Takken</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name></person-group><source>Environmental measures for malaria control in Indonesia: an historical review on species sanitation</source><year>1991</year><publisher-loc>Wageningen</publisher-loc><publisher-name>Agricultural University</publisher-name></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR23" publication-type="book">Takken W. Environmental measures for malaria control in Indonesia: an historical review on species sanitation. Wageningen: Agricultural University; 1991.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR24"><label>24.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR24" publication-type="book"><person-group person-group-type="author"><collab>AQAQ Direktorat Jenderal PP &#x00026; PL</collab></person-group><source>Sejarah Pemberantasan Penyakit di Indonesia</source><year>2007</year><publisher-loc>Jakarta</publisher-loc><publisher-name>Departemen Kesehatan RI</publisher-name></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR24" publication-type="book">Direktorat Jenderal PP &#x00026; PL. Sejarah Pemberantasan Penyakit di Indonesia. Jakarta: Departemen Kesehatan RI; 2007.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR25"><label>25.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> WHO. World malaria report 2014. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2014.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR26"><label>26.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> WHO. World malaria report 2013. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2013.
</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR27"><label>27.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> BAPPENAS. Laporan pencapaian tujuan pembangunan milenium di Indonesia 2010. Jakarta: Kementerian Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional / Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional (BAPPENAS); 2010.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR28"><label>28.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Parmawaty N. Situasi malaria di Indonesia tahun 1990&#x02013;2000. FKM-UI dan Departmen Kesehatan RI; 2002.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR29"><label>29.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> WHO. World malaria report 2022. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2022.
</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR30"><label>30.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR30" publication-type="book"><person-group person-group-type="author"><collab>AQ Kementerian Kesehatan RI</collab><collab>Sekretariat Jenderal</collab></person-group><source>Profil Kesehatan Indonesia 2023</source><year>2024</year><publisher-loc>Jakarta</publisher-loc><publisher-name>Kementerian Kesehatan RI</publisher-name></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR30" publication-type="book">Kementerian Kesehatan RI, Sekretariat Jenderal. Profil Kesehatan Indonesia 2023. Jakarta: Kementerian Kesehatan RI; 2024.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR31"><label>31.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> WHO. World malaria report 2021. Geneve: World Health Organization; 2021.
</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR32"><label>32.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Badan Penelitian dan Pengembangan Kesehatan. Laporan Nasional Riskesdas 2018. Jakarta: Lembaga Penerbit Badan Penelitian dan Pengembangan Kesehatan (LPB); 2019.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR33"><label>33.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Badan Kebijakan Pembangunan Kesehatan. Survei Kesehatan Indonesia (SKI) dalam Angka Tahun 2023. Jakarta: Kementerian Kesehatan RI; 2024.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR34"><label>34.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> WHO. World malaria report 2015. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2015.
</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR35"><label>35.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> WHO. World malaria report 2011. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2011.
</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR36"><label>36.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Direktorat Jenderal Pencegahan dan Pengendalian Penyakit (P2P). Petunjuk teknis penilaian eliminasi malaria kabupaten/kota dan provinsi: Keputusan Direktur Jenderal P2P Nomor: HK.02,02/C/381 Tanggal 20 Januari 2023. Jakarta: Kementerian Kesehatan RI; 2023.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR37"><label>37.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR37" publication-type="book"><person-group person-group-type="author"><collab>WHO</collab></person-group><source>Malaria elimination: a field manual for low and moderate endemic countries</source><year>2007</year><publisher-loc>Geneva</publisher-loc><publisher-name>World Health Organization</publisher-name></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR37" publication-type="book">WHO. Malaria elimination: a field manual for low and moderate endemic countries. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2007.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR38"><label>38.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR38" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wahyudi</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Raharjo</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Sulistiyani</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Malaria Vector Surveillance in Kepulauan Seribu as Threat in DKI Jakarta, 2023</article-title><source>Jurnal EduHealth.</source><year>2023</year><volume>14</volume><fpage>208</fpage><lpage>15</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR38" publication-type="journal">Wahyudi W, Raharjo M, Sulistiyani S. Malaria Vector Surveillance in Kepulauan Seribu as Threat in DKI Jakarta, 2023. Jurnal EduHealth. 2023;14:208&#x02013;15 <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://ejournal.seaninstitute.or.id/index.php/healt/article/view/1476">https://ejournal.seaninstitute.or.id/index.php/healt/article/view/1476</ext-link>. Accessed 14 Sep 2023.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR39"><label>39.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR39" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sitohang</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Sariwati</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Fajariyani</surname><given-names>SB</given-names></name><name><surname>Hwang</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Kurnia</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Hapsari</surname><given-names>RK</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Malaria elimination in Indonesia: halfway there</article-title><source>Lancet Glob Health</source><year>2018</year><volume>6</volume><fpage>e604&#x02013;6</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29703663</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR39" publication-type="journal">Sitohang V, Sariwati E, Fajariyani SB, Hwang D, Kurnia B, Hapsari RK, et al. Malaria elimination in Indonesia: halfway there. Lancet Glob Health. 2018;6: e604&#x02013;6.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29703663</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR40"><label>40.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Arisanti R, Indriani C, Ahmad RA, Basri H. Malaria outbreak investigation during COVID-19 pandemic in Rokan Hilir District, Riau Province, Indonesia, 2020. In: Connecting the dots: Advancing Human, Animal and Ecosystem Health. Canberra: 1st SAFETYNET Scientific Conference September 12&#x02013;15, 2023 in Canberra, Australia; 2023.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR41"><label>41.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Kementerian Kesehatan RI. Sekretariat Jenderal. Profil Kesehatan Indonesia Tahun 2014. Jakarta: Kementerian Kesehatan RI; 2015.
</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR42"><label>42.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Direktorat Jenderal Pencegahan dan Pengendalian Penyakit. Laporan Tahunan 2022 Malaria. Kementerian Kesehatan RI; 2023.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR43"><label>43.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Direktorat Pencegahan dan Pengendalian Penyakit Tular Vektor dan Zoonotik. Pedoman pelayanan terpadu ibu hamil dan balita dalam pengendalian malaria di fasilitas pelayanan kesehatan. Jakarta: Direktorat Jenderal Pencegahan dan Pengendalian Penyakit, Kementerian Kesehatan RI; 2019.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR44"><label>44.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> National Population and Family Planning Board (BKKBN), Statistics Indonesia (BPS), Ministry of Health (Kemenkes), ICF. Indonesia Demographic and Health Survey 2017. Jakarta: BKKBN, BPS, Kemenkes, and ICF; 2018.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR45"><label>45.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Peraturan Menteri Kesehatan Republik Indonesia Nomor 41 Tahun 2018 tentang Pelaksanaan Deteksi Dini dan Pemberian Obat Anti Malaria oleh Kader Malaria pada Daerah dengan Situasi Khusus. Jakarta: Kemenkes; 2018.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR46"><label>46.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> WHO Indonesia, Ministry of Health Republic of Indonesia. National Malaria Program Review Republic of Indonesia 2019. Jakarta: Country Office for Indonesia, World Health Organization; 2022.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR47"><label>47.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> WHO Indonesia, Ministry of Health Indonesia. National Malaria Program: Mid-term review Republic of Indonesia 2022. Jakarta: Country Office for Indonesia, World Health Organization; 2025.
</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR48"><label>48.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR48" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Djaafara</surname><given-names>BA</given-names></name><name><surname>Sherrard-Smith</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Churcher</surname><given-names>TS</given-names></name><name><surname>Fajariyani</surname><given-names>SB</given-names></name><name><surname>Prameswari</surname><given-names>HD</given-names></name><name><surname>Herdiana</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Spatiotemporal heterogeneity in malaria transmission across Indonesia: analysis of routine surveillance data 2010&#x02013;2019</article-title><source>BMC Med</source><year>2025</year><volume>23</volume><fpage>136</fpage><?supplied-pmid 40038730?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">40038730</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR48" publication-type="journal">Djaafara BA, Sherrard-Smith E, Churcher TS, Fajariyani SB, Prameswari HD, Herdiana H, et al. Spatiotemporal heterogeneity in malaria transmission across Indonesia: analysis of routine surveillance data 2010&#x02013;2019. BMC Med. 2025;23:136.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">40038730</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR49"><label>49.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR49" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Herdiana</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Irnawati</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Coutrier</surname><given-names>FN</given-names></name><name><surname>Munthe</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Mardiati</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Yuniarti</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Two clusters of <italic>Plasmodium knowlesi</italic> cases in a malaria elimination area, Sabang Municipality, Aceh, Indonesia</article-title><source>Malar J</source><year>2018</year><volume>17</volume><fpage>186</fpage><?supplied-pmid 29720188?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29720188</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR49" publication-type="journal">Herdiana H, Irnawati I, Coutrier FN, Munthe A, Mardiati M, Yuniarti T, et al. Two clusters of <italic>Plasmodium knowlesi</italic> cases in a malaria elimination area, Sabang Municipality, Aceh, Indonesia. Malar J. 2018;17: 186.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29720188</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR50"><label>50.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR50" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sihombing</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Does the Gap Between East and West Still Exist? a Study of Indonesia&#x02019;s Disparities</article-title><source>Udayana J. Soc. Sci. Human.</source><year>2019</year><volume>3</volume><fpage>1</fpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR50" publication-type="journal">Sihombing P. Does the Gap Between East and West Still Exist? a Study of Indonesia&#x02019;s Disparities. Udayana J Soc Sci Human. 2019;3:1 10.24843/UJoSSH.2019.v03.i01.p01. Accessed 7 Jan 2025.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR51"><label>51.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR51" publication-type="book"><person-group person-group-type="author"><collab>WHO. World malaria report</collab></person-group><source>addressing inequity in the global malaria response</source><year>2024</year><publisher-loc>Geneva</publisher-loc><publisher-name>World Health Organization</publisher-name><fpage>2024</fpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR51" publication-type="book">WHO. World malaria report. addressing inequity in the global malaria response. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2024. p. 2024.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR52"><label>52.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR52" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Linn</surname><given-names>NYY</given-names></name><name><surname>Kathirvel</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Das</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Thapa</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Rahman</surname><given-names>MdM</given-names></name><name><surname>Maung</surname><given-names>TM</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Are village health volunteers as good as basic health staffs in providing malaria care? A country wide analysis from Myanmar, 2015</article-title><source>Malar J</source><year>2018</year><volume>17</volume><fpage>242</fpage><?supplied-pmid 29925375?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29925375</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR52" publication-type="journal">Linn NYY, Kathirvel S, Das M, Thapa B, Rahman MdM, Maung TM, et al. Are village health volunteers as good as basic health staffs in providing malaria care? A country wide analysis from Myanmar, 2015. Malar J. 2018;17: 242.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29925375</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR53"><label>53.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR53" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Elyazar</surname><given-names>IRF</given-names></name><name><surname>Gething</surname><given-names>PW</given-names></name><name><surname>Patil</surname><given-names>AP</given-names></name><name><surname>Rogayah</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Sariwati</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Palupi</surname><given-names>NW</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title><italic>Plasmodium vivax</italic> malaria endemicity in Indonesia in 2010</article-title><source>PLoS One</source><year>2012</year><volume>7</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>e37325</fpage><?supplied-pmid 22615978?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22615978</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR53" publication-type="journal">Elyazar IRF, Gething PW, Patil AP, Rogayah H, Sariwati E, Palupi NW, et al. <italic>Plasmodium vivax</italic> malaria endemicity in Indonesia in 2010. PLoS One. 2012;7(5): e37325.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22615978</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR54"><label>54.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR54" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Elyazar</surname><given-names>IRF</given-names></name><name><surname>Gething</surname><given-names>PW</given-names></name><name><surname>Patil</surname><given-names>AP</given-names></name><name><surname>Rogayah</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Kusriastuti</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Wismarini</surname><given-names>DM</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title><italic>Plasmodium falciparum</italic> malaria endemicity in Indonesia in 2010</article-title><source>PLoS One</source><year>2011</year><volume>6</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>e21315</fpage><?supplied-pmid 21738634?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21738634</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR54" publication-type="journal">Elyazar IRF, Gething PW, Patil AP, Rogayah H, Kusriastuti R, Wismarini DM, et al. <italic>Plasmodium falciparum</italic> malaria endemicity in Indonesia in 2010. PLoS One. 2011;6(6): e21315.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21738634</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR55"><label>55.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR55" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sutanto</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Kosasih</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Elyazar</surname><given-names>IRF</given-names></name><name><surname>Simanjuntak</surname><given-names>DR</given-names></name><name><surname>Larasati</surname><given-names>TA</given-names></name><name><surname>Dahlan</surname><given-names>MS</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Negligible impact of mass screening and treatment on mesoendemic malaria transmission at West Timor in eastern Indonesia: a cluster-randomized trial</article-title><source>Clin Infect Dis</source><year>2018</year><volume>67</volume><fpage>1364</fpage><lpage>72</lpage><?supplied-pmid 29579195?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29579195</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR55" publication-type="journal">Sutanto I, Kosasih A, Elyazar IRF, Simanjuntak DR, Larasati TA, Dahlan MS, et al. Negligible impact of mass screening and treatment on mesoendemic malaria transmission at West Timor in eastern Indonesia: a cluster-randomized trial. Clin Infect Dis. 2018;67:1364&#x02013;72.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29579195</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR56"><label>56.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR56" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Docile</surname><given-names>HJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Fisher</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Pronyuk</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhao</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Current status of malaria control and elimination in Africa: epidemiology, diagnosis, treatment, progress and challenges</article-title><source>J Epidemiol Glob Health</source><year>2024</year><volume>14</volume><fpage>561</fpage><lpage>579</lpage><?supplied-pmid 38656731?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38656731</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR56" publication-type="journal">Li J, Docile HJ, Fisher D, Pronyuk K, Zhao L. Current status of malaria control and elimination in Africa: epidemiology, diagnosis, treatment, progress and challenges. J Epidemiol Glob Health. 2024;14:561&#x02013;79.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38656731</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR57"><label>57.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR57" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Cleary</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Hetzel</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Clements</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>A review of malaria epidemiology and control in Papua New Guinea 1900 to 2021: progress made and future directions</article-title><source>Front Epidemiol</source><year>2022</year><volume>2</volume><fpage>980795</fpage><?supplied-pmid 38455277?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38455277</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR57" publication-type="journal">Cleary E, Hetzel M, Clements A. A review of malaria epidemiology and control in Papua New Guinea 1900 to 2021: progress made and future directions. Front Epidemiol. 2022;2: 980795.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38455277</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR58"><label>58.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">WHO guidelines for malaria, 16 October 2023. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2023.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR59"><label>59.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR59" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Jackson</surname><given-names>BD</given-names></name><name><surname>Black</surname><given-names>RE</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>A literature review of the effect of malaria on stunting</article-title><source>J Nutr</source><year>2017</year><volume>147</volume><fpage>2163S</fpage><lpage>2168S</lpage><?supplied-pmid 28904111?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28904111</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR59" publication-type="journal">Jackson BD, Black RE. A literature review of the effect of malaria on stunting. J Nutr. 2017;147:2163S-2168S.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28904111</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR60"><label>60.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR60" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Das</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Grais</surname><given-names>RF</given-names></name><name><surname>Okiro</surname><given-names>EA</given-names></name><name><surname>Stepniewska</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Mansoor</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>van der Kam</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Complex interactions between malaria and malnutrition: a systematic literature review</article-title><source>BMC Med</source><year>2018</year><volume>16</volume><fpage>186</fpage><?supplied-pmid 30371344?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30371344</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR60" publication-type="journal">Das D, Grais RF, Okiro EA, Stepniewska K, Mansoor R, van der Kam S, et al. Complex interactions between malaria and malnutrition: a systematic literature review. BMC Med. 2018;16:186.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30371344</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR61"><label>61.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Presiden Republik Indonesia. Peraturan Presiden Nomor 72 Tahun 2021 tentang Percepatan Penurunan Stunting. Jakarta: Pemerintah Pusat Indonesia; 2021.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR62"><label>62.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR62" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ahmed</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Poespoprodjo</surname><given-names>JR</given-names></name><name><surname>Syafruddin</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Khairallah</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Pace</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Lukito</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Efficacy and safety of intermittent preventive treatment and intermittent screening and treatment versus single screening and treatment with dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine for the control of malaria in pregnancy in Indonesia: a cluster-randomised, open-label, superiority trial</article-title><source>Lancet Infect Dis</source><year>2019</year><volume>19</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>973</fpage><lpage>87</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31353217?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31353217</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR62" publication-type="journal">Ahmed R, Poespoprodjo JR, Syafruddin D, Khairallah C, Pace C, Lukito T, et al. Efficacy and safety of intermittent preventive treatment and intermittent screening and treatment versus single screening and treatment with dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine for the control of malaria in pregnancy in Indonesia: a cluster-randomised, open-label, superiority trial. Lancet Infect Dis. 2019;19(9):973&#x02013;87.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31353217</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR63"><label>63.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR63" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Olaleye</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Okusanya</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Oduwole</surname><given-names>O</given-names></name><name><surname>Esu</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Meremikwu</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>A systematic review and meta-analysis of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine versus sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine for malaria prevention in pregnancy</article-title><source>Int J Gynaecol Obstet</source><year>2019</year><volume>146</volume><fpage>43</fpage><lpage>55</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31050803?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31050803</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR63" publication-type="journal">Olaleye A, Okusanya B, Oduwole O, Esu E, Meremikwu M. A systematic review and meta-analysis of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine versus sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine for malaria prevention in pregnancy. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 2019;146:43&#x02013;55.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31050803</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR64"><label>64.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR64" publication-type="book"><person-group person-group-type="author"><collab>Kementerian Kesehatan RI. Sekretariat Jenderal</collab></person-group><source>Buku Kinerja Kementerian Kesehatan Republik Indonesia Tahun 2022&#x02013;2023: Transformasi Kesehatan Mewujudkan Masyarakat Indonesia Sehat dan Unggul</source><year>2024</year><publisher-loc>Jakarta</publisher-loc><publisher-name>Kementerian Kesehatan RI</publisher-name></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR64" publication-type="book">Kementerian Kesehatan RI. Sekretariat Jenderal. Buku Kinerja Kementerian Kesehatan Republik Indonesia Tahun 2022&#x02013;2023: Transformasi Kesehatan Mewujudkan Masyarakat Indonesia Sehat dan Unggul. Jakarta: Kementerian Kesehatan RI; 2024.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR65"><label>65.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR65" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Nurwidayati</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Purwanto</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Garjito</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Astuti</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The biodiversity of <italic>Anopheles</italic> and malaria vector control in Indonesia: a review</article-title><source>BIO Web Conf</source><year>2024</year><volume>101</volume><fpage>04004</fpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR65" publication-type="journal">Nurwidayati A, Purwanto H, Garjito T, Astuti R. The biodiversity of <italic>Anopheles</italic> and malaria vector control in Indonesia: a review. BIO Web Conf. 2024;101: 04004.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR66"><label>66.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR66" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Elyazar</surname><given-names>IRF</given-names></name><name><surname>Sinka</surname><given-names>ME</given-names></name><name><surname>Gething</surname><given-names>PW</given-names></name><name><surname>Tarmidzi</surname><given-names>SN</given-names></name><name><surname>Surya</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Kusriastuti</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The distribution and bionomics of anopheles malaria vector mosquitoes in Indonesia</article-title><source>Adv Parasitol</source><year>2013</year><volume>83</volume><fpage>173</fpage><lpage>266</lpage><?supplied-pmid 23876873?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23876873</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR66" publication-type="journal">Elyazar IRF, Sinka ME, Gething PW, Tarmidzi SN, Surya A, Kusriastuti R, et al. The distribution and bionomics of anopheles malaria vector mosquitoes in Indonesia. Adv Parasitol. 2013;83:173&#x02013;266.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23876873</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR67"><label>67.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR67" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Herdiana</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Fuad</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Asih</surname><given-names>PBS</given-names></name><name><surname>Zubaedah</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Arisanti</surname><given-names>RR</given-names></name><name><surname>Syafruddin</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Progress towards malaria elimination in Sabang Municipality, Aceh, Indonesia</article-title><source>Malar J</source><year>2013</year><volume>12</volume><fpage>42</fpage><?supplied-pmid 23363768?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23363768</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR67" publication-type="journal">Herdiana H, Fuad A, Asih PBS, Zubaedah S, Arisanti RR, Syafruddin D, et al. Progress towards malaria elimination in Sabang Municipality, Aceh, Indonesia. Malar J. 2013;12: 42.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23363768</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR68"><label>68.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR68" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sugiarto</surname><given-names>SR</given-names></name><name><surname>Baird</surname><given-names>JK</given-names></name><name><surname>Singh</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Elyazar</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Davis</surname><given-names>TME</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The history and current epidemiology of malaria in Kalimantan, Indonesia</article-title><source>Malar J</source><year>2022</year><volume>21</volume><fpage>327</fpage><?supplied-pmid 36372877?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36372877</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR68" publication-type="journal">Sugiarto SR, Baird JK, Singh B, Elyazar I, Davis TME. The history and current epidemiology of malaria in Kalimantan, Indonesia. Malar J. 2022;21: 327.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36372877</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR69"><label>69.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR69" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>St. Laurent</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Supratman</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Asih</surname><given-names>PBS</given-names></name><name><surname>Bretz</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Mueller</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Miller</surname><given-names>HC</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Behaviour and molecular identification of Anopheles malaria vectors in Jayapura district, Papua province,&#x000a0;Indonesia</article-title><source>&#x000a0;Malar J.</source><year>2016</year><volume>15</volume><fpage>192</fpage><?supplied-pmid 27060058?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27060058</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR69" publication-type="journal">St. Laurent B, Supratman S, Asih PBS, Bretz D, Mueller J, Miller HC, et al. Behaviour and molecular identification of Anopheles malaria vectors in Jayapura district, Papua province,&#x000a0;Indonesia. Malar J. 2016;15:192.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27060058</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR70"><label>70.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR70" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sinka</surname><given-names>ME</given-names></name><name><surname>Bangs</surname><given-names>MJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Manguin</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Chareonviriyaphap</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Patil</surname><given-names>AP</given-names></name><name><surname>Temperley</surname><given-names>WH</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The dominant <italic>Anopheles</italic> vectors of human malaria in the Asia-Pacific region: occurrence data, distribution maps and bionomic pr&#x000e9;cis</article-title><source>Parasit Vectors</source><year>2011</year><volume>4</volume><fpage>89</fpage><?supplied-pmid 21612587?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21612587</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR70" publication-type="journal">Sinka ME, Bangs MJ, Manguin S, Chareonviriyaphap T, Patil AP, Temperley WH, et al. The dominant <italic>Anopheles</italic> vectors of human malaria in the Asia-Pacific region: occurrence data, distribution maps and bionomic pr&#x000e9;cis. Parasit Vectors. 2011;4: 89.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21612587</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR71"><label>71.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR71" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Rozi</surname><given-names>IE</given-names></name><name><surname>Permana</surname><given-names>DH</given-names></name><name><surname>Syahrani</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Asih</surname><given-names>PBS</given-names></name><name><surname>Zubaidah</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Risandi</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Rapid entomological assessment in eight high malaria endemic regencies in Papua Province revealed the presence of indoor and outdoor malaria transmissions</article-title><source>Sci Rep</source><year>2024</year><volume>14</volume><fpage>14603</fpage><?supplied-pmid 38918533?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38918533</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR71" publication-type="journal">Rozi IE, Permana DH, Syahrani L, Asih PBS, Zubaidah S, Risandi R, et al. Rapid entomological assessment in eight high malaria endemic regencies in Papua Province revealed the presence of indoor and outdoor malaria transmissions. Sci Rep. 2024;14:14603.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38918533</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR72"><label>72.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Direktorat Jenderal Pencegahan dan Pengendalian Penyakit. Petunjuk teknis pengendalian faktor risiko malaria. Jakarta: Kementerian Kesehatan RI; 2022.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR73"><label>73.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Trapsilowati W, Pujiyanti A, Susanti L, Sulistyorini E, Alfiah S, Kawulur H, et al. Evaluation of durability and bio-efficacy long lasting insecticidal nets in Indonesia: a report to WHO Indonesia. Salatiga; 2023.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR74"><label>74.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR74" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bubun</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Anetul</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Koinari</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Johnson</surname><given-names>PH</given-names></name><name><surname>Makita</surname><given-names>LS</given-names></name><name><surname>Freeman</surname><given-names>TW</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Insufficient duration of insecticidal efficacy of Yahe&#x000ae; insecticide-treated nets in Papua New Guinea</article-title><source>Malar J</source><year>2024</year><volume>23</volume><fpage>175</fpage><?supplied-pmid 38840196?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38840196</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR74" publication-type="journal">Bubun N, Anetul E, Koinari M, Johnson PH, Makita LS, Freeman TW, et al. Insufficient duration of insecticidal efficacy of Yahe&#x000ae; insecticide-treated nets in Papua New Guinea. Malar J. 2024;23:175.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38840196</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR75"><label>75.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR75" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Vinit</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Timinao</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Bubun</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Katusele</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Robinson</surname><given-names>LJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Kaman</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Decreased bioefficacy of long-lasting insecticidal nets and the resurgence of malaria in Papua New Guinea</article-title><source>Nat Commun</source><year>2020</year><volume>11</volume><fpage>3646</fpage><?supplied-pmid 32686679?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32686679</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR75" publication-type="journal">Vinit R, Timinao L, Bubun N, Katusele M, Robinson LJ, Kaman P, et al. Decreased bioefficacy of long-lasting insecticidal nets and the resurgence of malaria in Papua New Guinea. Nat Commun. 2020;11:3646.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32686679</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR76"><label>76.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR76" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bubun</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Anetul</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Koinari</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Freeman</surname><given-names>TW</given-names></name><name><surname>Karl</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Coating formulation change leads to inferior performance of long-lasting insecticidal nets in Papua New Guinea</article-title><source>Malar J</source><year>2022</year><volume>21</volume><fpage>349</fpage><?supplied-pmid 36424604?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36424604</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR76" publication-type="journal">Bubun N, Anetul E, Koinari M, Freeman TW, Karl S. Coating formulation change leads to inferior performance of long-lasting insecticidal nets in Papua New Guinea. Malar J. 2022;21:349.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36424604</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR77"><label>77.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> WHO. Guidelines for malaria vector control. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2019.
</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR78"><label>78.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR78" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wilson</surname><given-names>AL</given-names></name><name><surname>Courtenay</surname><given-names>O</given-names></name><name><surname>Kelly-Hope</surname><given-names>LA</given-names></name><name><surname>Scott</surname><given-names>TW</given-names></name><name><surname>Takken</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Torr</surname><given-names>SJ</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The importance of vector control for the control and elimination of vector-borne diseases</article-title><source>PLoS Negl Trop Dis</source><year>2020</year><volume>14</volume><fpage>e0007831</fpage><?supplied-pmid 31945061?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31945061</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR78" publication-type="journal">Wilson AL, Courtenay O, Kelly-Hope LA, Scott TW, Takken W, Torr SJ, et al. The importance of vector control for the control and elimination of vector-borne diseases. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2020;14: e0007831.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31945061</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR79"><label>79.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> WHO Indonesia, Ministry of Health Republic of Indonesia. National malaria control program review: Republic of Indonesia 2011. Jakarta: WHO Country Office for Indonesia and Ministry of Health, Indonesia; 2013.
</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR80"><label>80.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Malaria control program models in North Maluku Province, Indonesia. 2016. <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://actmalaria.net/newsroom/viewtopic.php?t=53">https://actmalaria.net/newsroom/viewtopic.php?t=53</ext-link>. Accessed 8 Oct 2024.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR81"><label>81.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Alhabsyi M. Situasi dan Program Pengendalian Malaria di Kabupaten Halmahera Selatan. Ternate: Dinas Kesehatan Provinsi Maluku Utara; 2009.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR82"><label>82.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR82" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>St. Laurent</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Burton</surname><given-names>TA</given-names></name><name><surname>Zubaidah</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Miller</surname><given-names>HC</given-names></name><name><surname>Asih</surname><given-names>PB</given-names></name><name><surname>Baharuddin</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Host attraction and biting behaviour of Anopheles mosquitoes in South Halmahera Indonesia</article-title><source>&#x000a0;Malar J.</source><year>2017</year><volume>16</volume><fpage>310</fpage><?supplied-pmid 28764710?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28764710</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR82" publication-type="journal">St. Laurent B, Burton TA, Zubaidah S, Miller HC, Asih PB, Baharuddin A, et al. Host attraction and biting behaviour of Anopheles mosquitoes in South Halmahera Indonesia. Malar J. 2017;16:310.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28764710</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR83"><label>83.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Direktorat Pencegahan dan Pengendalian Penyakit Menular (P2PM). Petunjuk Teknis Percepatan Penurunan Kasus Malaria di Tanah Papua. Jakarta: Direktorat Jenderal Pencegahan dan Pengendalian Penyakit (P2P), Kementerian Kesehatan RI; 2024.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR84"><label>84.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Indonesia overview. The World Bank in Indonesia. 2023. <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://www.worldbank.org/en/country/indonesia/overview">https://www.worldbank.org/en/country/indonesia/overview</ext-link>. Accessed 4 Oct 2024.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR85"><label>85.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR85" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Cotter</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Sturrock</surname><given-names>HJW</given-names></name><name><surname>Hsiang</surname><given-names>MS</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Phillips</surname><given-names>AA</given-names></name><name><surname>Hwang</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The changing epidemiology of malaria elimination: new strategies for new challenges</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2013</year><volume>382</volume><fpage>900</fpage><lpage>11</lpage><?supplied-pmid 23594387?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23594387</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR85" publication-type="journal">Cotter C, Sturrock HJW, Hsiang MS, Liu J, Phillips AA, Hwang J, et al. The changing epidemiology of malaria elimination: new strategies for new challenges. Lancet. 2013;382:900&#x02013;11.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23594387</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR86"><label>86.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR86" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Chuquiyauri</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Paredes</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Pe&#x000f1;ataro</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Torres</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Marin</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Tenorio</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Socio-demographics and the development of malaria elimination strategies in the low transmission setting</article-title><source>Acta Trop</source><year>2012</year><volume>121</volume><fpage>292</fpage><lpage>302</lpage><?supplied-pmid 22100446?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22100446</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR86" publication-type="journal">Chuquiyauri R, Paredes M, Pe&#x000f1;ataro P, Torres S, Marin S, Tenorio A, et al. Socio-demographics and the development of malaria elimination strategies in the low transmission setting. Acta Trop. 2012;121:292&#x02013;302.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22100446</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR87"><label>87.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR87" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Htike</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Oo</surname><given-names>WH</given-names></name><name><surname>Lynn</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Sovanda</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Agius</surname><given-names>PA</given-names></name><name><surname>Oo</surname><given-names>MC</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Reducing malaria transmission in forest-going mobile and migrant populations in Lao PDR and Cambodia: protocol for stepped-wedge cluster-randomised controlled trial</article-title><source>BMC Infect Dis</source><year>2022</year><volume>22</volume><fpage>747</fpage><?supplied-pmid 36153501?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36153501</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR87" publication-type="journal">Htike W, Oo WH, Lynn T, Sovanda L, Agius PA, Oo MC, et al. Reducing malaria transmission in forest-going mobile and migrant populations in Lao PDR and Cambodia: protocol for stepped-wedge cluster-randomised controlled trial. BMC Infect Dis. 2022;22:747.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36153501</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR88"><label>88.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR88" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kheang</surname><given-names>ST</given-names></name><name><surname>Lin</surname><given-names>MA</given-names></name><name><surname>Lwin</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Naing</surname><given-names>YH</given-names></name><name><surname>Yarzar</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Kak</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Malaria case detection among mobile populations and migrant workers in Myanmar: comparison of 3 service delivery approaches</article-title><source>Glob Health Sci Pract</source><year>2018</year><volume>6</volume><fpage>384</fpage><?supplied-pmid 29875157?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29875157</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR88" publication-type="journal">Kheang ST, Lin MA, Lwin S, Naing YH, Yarzar P, Kak N, et al. Malaria case detection among mobile populations and migrant workers in Myanmar: comparison of 3 service delivery approaches. Glob Health Sci Pract. 2018;6:384.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29875157</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR89"><label>89.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR89" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Agius</surname><given-names>PA</given-names></name><name><surname>Cutts</surname><given-names>JC</given-names></name><name><surname>Han Oo</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Thi</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>O&#x02019;Flaherty</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Zayar Aung</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Evaluation of the effectiveness of topical repellent distributed by village health volunteer networks against <italic>Plasmodium</italic> spp. infection in Myanmar: a stepped-wedge cluster randomised trial</article-title><source>PLoS Med</source><year>2020</year><volume>17</volume><fpage>e1003177</fpage><?supplied-pmid 32817632?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32817632</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR89" publication-type="journal">Agius PA, Cutts JC, Han Oo W, Thi A, O&#x02019;Flaherty K, Zayar Aung K, et al. Evaluation of the effectiveness of topical repellent distributed by village health volunteer networks against <italic>Plasmodium</italic> spp. infection in Myanmar: a stepped-wedge cluster randomised trial. PLoS Med. 2020;17: e1003177.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32817632</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR90"><label>90.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR90" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Iv</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Nguon</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Kong</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Sieng</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Srun</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Christiansen-Jucht</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Intermittent preventive treatment for forest goers by forest malaria workers: an observational study on a key intervention for malaria elimination in Cambodia</article-title><source>The Lancet Regional Health</source><year>2024</year><?supplied-pmid 38799614?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38799614</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR90" publication-type="journal">Iv S, Nguon C, Kong P, Sieng T, Srun S, Christiansen-Jucht C, et al. Intermittent preventive treatment for forest goers by forest malaria workers: an observational study on a key intervention for malaria elimination in Cambodia. The Lancet Regional Health. 2024. 10.1016/j.lanwpc.2024.101093.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38799614</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR91"><label>91.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR91" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>von Seidlein</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Peto</surname><given-names>TJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Landier</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Nguyen</surname><given-names>T-N</given-names></name><name><surname>Tripura</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Phommasone</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The impact of targeted malaria elimination with mass drug administrations on <italic>falciparum</italic> malaria in Southeast Asia: A cluster randomised trial</article-title><source>PLoS Med</source><year>2019</year><volume>16</volume><fpage>e1002745</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30768615</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR91" publication-type="journal">von Seidlein L, Peto TJ, Landier J, Nguyen T-N, Tripura R, Phommasone K, et al. The impact of targeted malaria elimination with mass drug administrations on <italic>falciparum</italic> malaria in Southeast Asia: A cluster randomised trial. PLoS Med. 2019;16: e1002745.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30768615</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR92"><label>92.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Diptyanusa A, Human Initiative, Hasan Basri H, Prameswari HD, Supriyanto D. Tackling malaria in Indonesia&#x02019;s new capital: Results from pilot study on mobile migrant populations. In: 21st International Congress for Tropical Medicine and Malaria (ICTMM 2024). Borneo Convention Center Kuching (BCCK), Sarawak, Malaysia; 2024. p. 51.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR93"><label>93.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Regional Office for South-East Asia, World Health Organization. Approaches for mobile and migrant populations in the context of malaria multidrug resistance and malaria elimination in the Greater Mekong Subregion. WHO Regional Office for South-East Asia; 2016.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR94"><label>94.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR94" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Manzoni</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Try</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Guintran</surname><given-names>JO</given-names></name><name><surname>Christiansen-Jucht</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Jacoby</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Sovannaroth</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Progress towards malaria elimination in the Greater Mekong Subregion: perspectives from the World Health Organization</article-title><source>Malar J</source><year>2024</year><volume>23</volume><fpage>64</fpage><?supplied-pmid 38429807?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38429807</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR94" publication-type="journal">Manzoni G, Try R, Guintran JO, Christiansen-Jucht C, Jacoby E, Sovannaroth S, et al. Progress towards malaria elimination in the Greater Mekong Subregion: perspectives from the World Health Organization. Malar J. 2024;23:64.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38429807</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR95"><label>95.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Mapping of Mobile and Migrant Population at The Outdoor Malaria Transmission Setting in Indonesia (MOTION). <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://www.oucru.org/project/motion/">https://www.oucru.org/project/motion/</ext-link>.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR96"><label>96.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR96" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Cui</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Recent malaria outbreak in the USA: risk of and response to malaria reintroduction in non-endemic regions</article-title><source>Decoding Infection and Transmission</source><year>2024</year><volume>2</volume><fpage>100018</fpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR96" publication-type="journal">Cui L, Kim K. Recent malaria outbreak in the USA: risk of and response to malaria reintroduction in non-endemic regions. Decoding Infection and Transmission. 2024;2: 100018. 10.1016/j.dcit.2024.100018.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR97"><label>97.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR97" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Cohen</surname><given-names>JM</given-names></name><name><surname>Smith</surname><given-names>DL</given-names></name><name><surname>Cotter</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Ward</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Yamey</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Sabot</surname><given-names>OJ</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Malaria resurgence: a systematic review and assessment of its causes</article-title><source>Malar J</source><year>2012</year><volume>11</volume><fpage>122</fpage><?supplied-pmid 22531245?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22531245</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR97" publication-type="journal">Cohen JM, Smith DL, Cotter C, Ward A, Yamey G, Sabot OJ, et al. Malaria resurgence: a systematic review and assessment of its causes. Malar J. 2012;11: 122.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22531245</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR98"><label>98.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> World Health Organization. Risks associated with scale-back of vector control after malaria transmission has been reduced. Information Note. 2015.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR99"><label>99.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR99" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bin Said</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Kouakou</surname><given-names>YI</given-names></name><name><surname>Omorou</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Bienvenu</surname><given-names>A-L</given-names></name><name><surname>Ahmed</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Culleton</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Systematic review of <italic>Plasmodium knowlesi</italic> in Indonesia: a risk of emergence in the context of capital relocation to Borneo?</article-title><source>Parasit Vectors</source><year>2022</year><volume>15</volume><fpage>258</fpage><?supplied-pmid 35850777?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35850777</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR99" publication-type="journal">Bin Said I, Kouakou YI, Omorou R, Bienvenu A-L, Ahmed K, Culleton R, et al. Systematic review of <italic>Plasmodium knowlesi</italic> in Indonesia: a risk of emergence in the context of capital relocation to Borneo? Parasit Vectors. 2022;15: 258.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35850777</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR100"><label>100.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Direktorat Pencegahan dan Pengendalian Penyakit Tular Vektor dan Zoonotik. Standard Prosedur Operasional (SPO) Uji Coba Surveilans Sentinel Knowlesi di Indonesia. Jakarta: Direktorat Jenderal Pencegahan dan Pengendalian Penyakit, Kementerian Kesehatan RI; 2020.
</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR101"><label>101.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR101" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Chin</surname><given-names>AZ</given-names></name><name><surname>Maluda</surname><given-names>MCM</given-names></name><name><surname>Jelip</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Jeffree</surname><given-names>MSB</given-names></name><name><surname>Culleton</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Ahmed</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Malaria elimination in Malaysia and the rising threat of <italic>Plasmodium knowlesi</italic></article-title><source>J Physiol Anthropol</source><year>2020</year><volume>39</volume><fpage>36</fpage><?supplied-pmid 33228775?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33228775</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR101" publication-type="journal">Chin AZ, Maluda MCM, Jelip J, Jeffree MSB, Culleton R, Ahmed K. Malaria elimination in Malaysia and the rising threat of <italic>Plasmodium knowlesi</italic>. J Physiol Anthropol. 2020;39:36.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33228775</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR102"><label>102.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR102" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Rohani</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Fakhriy</surname><given-names>HA</given-names></name><name><surname>Suzilah</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Zurainee</surname><given-names>MN</given-names></name><name><surname>Najdah</surname><given-names>WMAW</given-names></name><name><surname>Ariffin</surname><given-names>MM</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Indoor and outdoor residual spraying of a novel formulation of deltamethrin K-Othrine&#x000ae; (Polyzone) for the control of simian malaria in Sabah</article-title><source>Malaysia PLoS One</source><year>2020</year><volume>15</volume><fpage>e0230860</fpage><?supplied-pmid 32413033?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32413033</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR102" publication-type="journal">Rohani A, Fakhriy HA, Suzilah I, Zurainee MN, Najdah WMAW, Ariffin MM, et al. Indoor and outdoor residual spraying of a novel formulation of deltamethrin K-Othrine&#x000ae; (Polyzone) for the control of simian malaria in Sabah. Malaysia PLoS One. 2020;15: e0230860.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32413033</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR103"><label>103.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Mohammad AH, Naserrudin NA, Syed Abdul Rahim SS, Jelip J, Atil A, Sazali MF, et al. Narrative Review of the Control and Prevention of Knowlesi Malaria. Trop Med Infect Dis. 2022 Aug 11;7(8):178.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR104"><label>104.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR104" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Maia</surname><given-names>MF</given-names></name><name><surname>Kliner</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Richardson</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Lengeler</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Moore</surname><given-names>SJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Mosquito repellents for malaria prevention</article-title><source>Cochrane Database Syst Rev</source><year>2018</year><volume>2</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>CD011595</fpage><?supplied-pmid 29405263?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29405263</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR104" publication-type="journal">Maia MF, Kliner M, Richardson M, Lengeler C, Moore SJ. Mosquito repellents for malaria prevention. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2018;2(2): CD011595.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29405263</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR105"><label>105.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR105" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Douglas</surname><given-names>NM</given-names></name><name><surname>Poespoprodjo</surname><given-names>JR</given-names></name><name><surname>Patriani</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Malloy</surname><given-names>MJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Kenangalem</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Sugiarto</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Unsupervised primaquine for the treatment of <italic>Plasmodium vivax</italic> malaria relapses in southern Papua: a hospital-based cohort study</article-title><source>PLoS Med</source><year>2017</year><volume>14</volume><fpage>e1002379</fpage><?supplied-pmid 28850568?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28850568</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR105" publication-type="journal">Douglas NM, Poespoprodjo JR, Patriani D, Malloy MJ, Kenangalem E, Sugiarto P, et al. Unsupervised primaquine for the treatment of <italic>Plasmodium vivax</italic> malaria relapses in southern Papua: a hospital-based cohort study. PLoS Med. 2017;14: e1002379.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28850568</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR106"><label>106.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR106" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>White</surname><given-names>NJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Determinants of relapse periodicity in <italic>Plasmodium vivax</italic> malaria</article-title><source>Malar J</source><year>2011</year><volume>10</volume><fpage>297</fpage><?supplied-pmid 21989376?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21989376</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR106" publication-type="journal">White NJ. Determinants of relapse periodicity in <italic>Plasmodium vivax</italic> malaria. Malar J. 2011;10:297.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21989376</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR107"><label>107.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR107" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Mehdipour</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Rajasekhar</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Dini</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Zaloumis</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Abreha</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Adam</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Effect of adherence to primaquine on the risk of <italic>Plasmodium vivax</italic> recurrence: a Worldwide antimalarial resistance network systematic review and individual patient data meta-analysis</article-title><source>Malar J</source><year>2023</year><volume>22</volume><fpage>306</fpage><?supplied-pmid 37817240?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37817240</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR107" publication-type="journal">Mehdipour P, Rajasekhar M, Dini S, Zaloumis S, Abreha T, Adam I, et al. Effect of adherence to primaquine on the risk of <italic>Plasmodium vivax</italic> recurrence: a Worldwide antimalarial resistance network systematic review and individual patient data meta-analysis. Malar J. 2023;22:306.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37817240</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR108"><label>108.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> WHO. Guidelines for the treatment of malaria, 3rd ed. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2015.
</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR109"><label>109.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Direktorat Pencegahan dan Pengendalian Penyakit Menular. Buku Saku Tata Laksana Kasus Malaria. Jakarta: Kementerian Kesehatan RI; 2023.
</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR110"><label>110.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR110" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Taylor</surname><given-names>WRJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Thriemer</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>von Seidlein</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Yuentrakul</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Assawariyathipat</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Assefa</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Short-course primaquine for the radical cure of <italic>Plasmodium vivax</italic> malaria: a multicentre, randomised, placebo-controlled non-inferiority trial</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2019</year><volume>394</volume><fpage>929</fpage><lpage>38</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31327563?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31327563</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR110" publication-type="journal">Taylor WRJ, Thriemer K, von Seidlein L, Yuentrakul P, Assawariyathipat T, Assefa A, et al. Short-course primaquine for the radical cure of <italic>Plasmodium vivax</italic> malaria: a multicentre, randomised, placebo-controlled non-inferiority trial. Lancet. 2019;394:929&#x02013;38.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31327563</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR111"><label>111.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR111" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Poespoprodjo</surname><given-names>JR</given-names></name><name><surname>Burdam</surname><given-names>FH</given-names></name><name><surname>Candrawati</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Ley</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Meagher</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Kenangalem</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Supervised versus unsupervised primaquine radical cure for the treatment of <italic>falciparum</italic> and <italic>vivax</italic> malaria in Papua, Indonesia: a cluster-randomised, controlled, open-label superiority trial</article-title><source>Lancet Infect Dis</source><year>2022</year><volume>22</volume><fpage>367</fpage><lpage>76</lpage><?supplied-pmid 34710363?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34710363</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR111" publication-type="journal">Poespoprodjo JR, Burdam FH, Candrawati F, Ley B, Meagher N, Kenangalem E, et al. Supervised versus unsupervised primaquine radical cure for the treatment of <italic>falciparum</italic> and <italic>vivax</italic> malaria in Papua, Indonesia: a cluster-randomised, controlled, open-label superiority trial. Lancet Infect Dis. 2022;22:367&#x02013;76.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34710363</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR112"><label>112.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR112" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Nur</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Harbuwono</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Indonesia&#x02019;s first nationwide health screening program</article-title><source>Lancet Glob Health</source><year>2025</year><volume>13</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>e620</fpage><?supplied-pmid 40015295?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">40015295</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR112" publication-type="journal">Nur A, Harbuwono D. Indonesia&#x02019;s first nationwide health screening program. Lancet Glob Health. 2025;13(4):e620.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">40015295</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR113"><label>113.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR113" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Timan</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Pattiasina</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Pasaribu</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Anandari</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Kosen</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Rohsiswatmo</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>G6PD deficiency in Indonesian newborn</article-title><source>Adv Sci Lett</source><year>2018</year><volume>24</volume><fpage>6602</fpage><lpage>4</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR113" publication-type="journal">Timan I, Pattiasina F, Pasaribu M, Anandari L, Kosen D, Rohsiswatmo R, et al. G6PD deficiency in Indonesian newborn. Adv Sci Lett. 2018;24:6602&#x02013;4.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR114"><label>114.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Tuda JS, Kepel. BJ, Nakatsu M, Matsuoka H. Prevalensi defisiensi Glucose-6-Phosphate Dehydrogenase (G6PD) pada anak Sekolah Dasar yang tinggal di daerah endemis malaria di Sulawesi utara. Jurnal Kedokteran Yarsi. 2007;15(1). 10.33476/jky.v15i1.1008. Accessed 7 Jun 2025.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR115"><label>115.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR115" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Satyagraha</surname><given-names>AW</given-names></name><name><surname>Sadhewa</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Baramuli</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Elvira</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Ridenour</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Elyazar</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>G6PD deficiency at Sumba in eastern Indonesia is prevalent, diverse and severe: implications for Primaquine therapy against relapsing Vivax malaria</article-title><source>PLoS Negl Trop Dis</source><year>2015</year><volume>9</volume><fpage>e0003602</fpage><?supplied-pmid 25746733?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25746733</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR115" publication-type="journal">Satyagraha AW, Sadhewa A, Baramuli V, Elvira R, Ridenour C, Elyazar I, et al. G6PD deficiency at Sumba in eastern Indonesia is prevalent, diverse and severe: implications for Primaquine therapy against relapsing Vivax malaria. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2015;9: e0003602.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25746733</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR116"><label>116.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR116" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Matsuoka</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Arai</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Yoshida</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Tantular</surname><given-names>IS</given-names></name><name><surname>Pusarawati</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Kerong</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Five different glucose-6-phophate dehydrogenase (G6PD) variants found among 11 G6PD-deficient persons in Flores Island, Indonesia</article-title><source>J Hum Genet</source><year>2003</year><volume>48</volume><fpage>541</fpage><lpage>544</lpage><?supplied-pmid 14505231?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">14505231</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR116" publication-type="journal">Matsuoka H, Arai M, Yoshida S, Tantular IS, Pusarawati S, Kerong H, et al. Five different glucose-6-phophate dehydrogenase (G6PD) variants found among 11 G6PD-deficient persons in Flores Island, Indonesia. J Hum Genet. 2003;48:541&#x02013;4.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">14505231</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR117"><label>117.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> WHO. World malaria report 2023. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2023.
</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR118"><label>118.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR118" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Thomson</surname><given-names>MC</given-names></name><name><surname>Stanberry</surname><given-names>LR</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Climate change and vectorborne diseases</article-title><source>N Engl J Med</source><year>2022</year><volume>387</volume><issue>21</issue><fpage>1969</fpage><lpage>1978</lpage><?supplied-pmid 36416768?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36416768</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR118" publication-type="journal">Thomson MC, Stanberry LR. Climate change and vectorborne diseases. N Engl J Med. 2022;387(21):1969&#x02013;78.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36416768</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR119"><label>119.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Rahmani AA, Susanna D, Eryando T. The Relationship Between Climate Change and Indonesia&#x02019;s Malaria Burden. Qual Manage. 2024;34:e22296. 10.1002/tqem.22296. Accessed 7 Dec 2024.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR120"><label>120.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR120" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ridha</surname><given-names>MR</given-names></name><name><surname>Indriyati</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Juhairiyah</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Kusumaningtyas</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Malaria incidence trends and their association with climatic variables in East Kalimantan, Indonesia, 2014&#x02013;2020</article-title><source>Jurnal Kesehatan Lingkungan</source><year>2022</year><volume>14</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>130</fpage><lpage>138</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR120" publication-type="journal">Ridha MR, Indriyati L, Juhairiyah J, Kusumaningtyas H. Malaria incidence trends and their association with climatic variables in East Kalimantan, Indonesia, 2014&#x02013;2020. Jurnal Kesehatan Lingkungan. 2022;14(2):130&#x02013;8. 10.20473/jkl.v14i2.2022.130-138.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR121"><label>121.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Kementerian Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional. Ringkasan Eksekutif Kebijakan Pembangunan Ketahanan Iklim (Climate Resilience Development Policy) 2020&#x02013;2024. Jakarta: BAPPENAS; 2021.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR122"><label>122.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> World Health Organization, PAHO, United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Climate and Health County Profile Indonesia &#x02013; 2015. Geneva; 2016.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR123"><label>123.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> WHO. Indonesia takes decisive, pioneering action to strengthen multisource collaborative surveillance for dengue. World Health Organization. 2024. <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://www.who.int/indonesia/news/detail/30-07-2024-indonesia-takes-decisive--pioneering-action-to-strengthen-multisource-collaborative-surveillance-for-dengue">https://www.who.int/indonesia/news/detail/30-07-2024-indonesia-takes-decisive--pioneering-action-to-strengthen-multisource-collaborative-surveillance-for-dengue</ext-link>. Accessed 8 Oct 2024.</mixed-citation></ref></ref-list></back></article>