# Methods and reporting of studies assessing the impact of adherence to clinical practice guidelines: a scoping review.

<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//NLM//DTD JATS (Z39.96) Journal Archiving and Interchange DTD with MathML3 v1.3 20210610//EN" "JATS-archivearticle1-3-mathml3.dtd"> 
<article xmlns:ali="http://www.niso.org/schemas/ali/1.0/" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" article-type="research-article" dtd-version="1.3"><?properties open_access?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierValue -//Springer-Verlag//DTD A++ V2.4//EN?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierType public?><?SourceDTD.DTDName A++V2.4.dtd?><?SourceDTD.Version 2.4?><?ConverterInfo.XSLTName springer2nlmx2.xsl?><?ConverterInfo.Version 1?><processing-meta base-tagset="archiving" mathml-version="3.0" table-model="xhtml" tagset-family="jats"><restricted-by>pmc</restricted-by></processing-meta><front><journal-meta><journal-id journal-id-type="nlm-ta">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-id journal-id-type="iso-abbrev">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-title-group><journal-title>BMC Medicine</journal-title></journal-title-group><issn pub-type="epub">1741-7015</issn><publisher><publisher-name>BioMed Central</publisher-name><publisher-loc>London</publisher-loc></publisher></journal-meta>
<article-meta><article-id pub-id-type="pmcid">12320351</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="pmid">40754575</article-id>
<article-id pub-id-type="publisher-id">4257</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12916-025-04257-x</article-id><article-categories><subj-group subj-group-type="heading"><subject>Research</subject></subj-group></article-categories><title-group><article-title>Methods and reporting of studies assessing the impact of adherence to clinical practice guidelines: a scoping review</article-title></title-group><contrib-group><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Yazbeck</surname><given-names>Batoul</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Boutron</surname><given-names>Isabelle</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Porcher</surname><given-names>Rapha&#x000eb;l</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Riveros</surname><given-names>Carolina</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Ravaud</surname><given-names>Philippe</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Yaacoub</surname><given-names>Sally</given-names></name><address><email>sally.yaacoub@u-paris.fr</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref></contrib><aff id="Aff1"><label>1</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/02vjkv261</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.7429.8</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 2186 6389</institution-id><institution>Center for Research in Epidemiology and Statistics (CRESS), </institution><institution>Universit&#x000e9; Paris Cit&#x000e9; and Universit&#x000e9; Sorbonne Paris Nord, Inserm, INRAE, </institution></institution-wrap>Paris, F-75004 France </aff><aff id="Aff2"><label>2</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/00pg5jh14</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.50550.35</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 2175 4109</institution-id><institution>Centre d&#x02019;&#x000c9;pid&#x000e9;miologie Clinique, H&#x000f4;pital H&#x000f4;tel Dieu AP-HP, </institution></institution-wrap>1 Parvis de Notre Dame, Paris, 75004 France </aff><aff id="Aff3"><label>3</label>Cochrane France, Paris, France </aff></contrib-group><pub-date pub-type="epub"><day>4</day><month>8</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="pmc-release"><day>4</day><month>8</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="collection"><year>2025</year></pub-date><volume>23</volume><elocation-id>454</elocation-id><history><date date-type="received"><day>21</day><month>2</month><year>2025</year></date><date date-type="accepted"><day>3</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></date></history><permissions><copyright-statement>&#x000a9; The Author(s) 2025</copyright-statement><copyright-year>2025</copyright-year><license><ali:license_ref specific-use="textmining" content-type="ccbyncndlicense">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ali:license_ref><license-p><bold>Open Access</bold> This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed material. You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/">http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ext-link>.</license-p></license></permissions><abstract id="Abs1"><sec><title>Background</title><p id="Par4">Ensuring adherence to clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) is critical for improving patient outcomes. However, how the impact of guideline adherence on clinical outcomes is studied remains unclear. Our objectives are (1) to identify studies that assess the impact of adherence to CPGs; (2) to describe the research questions of these studies; and (3) to describe their study designs, methods, and reporting. We focused on CPGs addressing the pharmacologic management of major chronic diseases, specifically musculoskeletal diseases (rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, axial spondyloarthritis, and psoriatic arthritis), diabetes, and hypertension.</p></sec><sec><title>Methods</title><p id="Par5">We conducted a scoping review. We searched PubMed on March 3, 2023, for studies published since 2013. We included studies assessing the impact of adherence to CPGs for the pharmacologic management of adult patients. One reviewer screened the titles and abstracts and full texts and a second reviewer independently screened 20%. Two reviewers independently extracted data using a standardized pilot-tested data extraction form. Data were analyzed descriptively.</p></sec><sec><title>Results</title><p id="Par6">Of 7952 records retrieved, 16 studies were eligible for inclusion. The studies addressed CPGs for the management of diabetes (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;8), hypertension (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;6), and axial spondyloarthritis (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;2). All studies were cohort studies, but none emulated a target trial. The median number of participants analyzed was 511 (IQR 350; 10,536) and the median follow-up time was 9&#x000a0;months (IQR 4; 18). Four studies explicitly reported the recommendations for which the impact of adherence was assessed, nine precisely defined adherence, and eight studies evaluated only surrogate outcomes. Thirteen studies accounted for confounding factors. There was serious or critical risk of bias in selection of participants in 13 studies.</p></sec><sec><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par7">The impact of adherence to clinical practice guidelines is rarely and inadequately evaluated. Future research should employ rigorous study designs and reporting standards to generate more reliable insights into the impact of CPG adherence.</p></sec><sec><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12916-025-04257-x.</p></sec></abstract><kwd-group xml:lang="en"><title>Keyword</title><kwd>Evidence-based medicine</kwd><kwd>Clinical practice guidelines</kwd><kwd>Research methodology</kwd></kwd-group><custom-meta-group><custom-meta><meta-name>issue-copyright-statement</meta-name><meta-value>&#x000a9; BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2025</meta-value></custom-meta></custom-meta-group></article-meta></front><body><sec id="Sec1"><title>Background</title><p id="Par15">Clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) are defined as &#x0201c;statements that include recommendations intended to optimize patient care that are informed by a systematic review of evidence and an assessment of the benefits and harms of alternative care options,&#x0201d; according to the Institute of Medicine [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>]. CPGs also standardize care, reduce unwarranted variations, and control healthcare expenditures [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>]. Each year, national and international organizations develop numerous CPGs for various clinical conditions. Currently, the International Guidelines Library, maintained by the Guidelines International Network (GIN), contains more than 3500 guidelines [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>].
</p><p id="Par16">Adherence to CPGs in routine clinical practice remains inconsistent. Multiple barriers hinder adherence to guidelines. At the physician level, lack of awareness or familiarity with guidelines, disagreement with specific recommendations, time constraints, and concerns about applicability in the real-world practice are common challenges [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>]. From the patient perspective, factors such as low health literacy, limited access to care, and personal beliefs or preferences can affect adherence [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>]. At the system level, inadequate infrastructure, poor dissemination strategies of guidelines, and misaligned reimbursement models can all reduce guideline adherence [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>].</p><p id="Par17">The evaluation of CPGs is an essential aspect of their development and dissemination. The GIN-McMaster checklist, which was designed to outline practical steps to consider when developing guidelines, includes a step to provide support and tools for prospective evaluation of CPGs, under the topic &#x0201c;Evaluation and Use.&#x0201d; The primary goal of evaluating CPGs is to determine whether adherence improves patient or population health outcomes, as well as other relevant outcomes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>].</p><p id="Par18">There is a pressing need to assess the impact of adherence to CPGs on clinical outcomes, specifically that many recommendations are not based on high level of evidence [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>]. However, there are currently no recommendations on the methods to conduct such assessments. In addition, with the increasing access to real-world data, new methods have been developed such as target trial emulation [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec2"><title>Methods</title><sec id="Sec3"><title>Objectives</title><p id="Par19">This study aims to determine whether and how the impact of adherence to CPGs on clinical outcomes has been assessed in the past decade (2013&#x02013;2023). Our objectives are (1) to identify studies that assess the impact of adherence to CPGs; (2) to describe the research questions of these studies; and (3) to describe their study designs, methods, and reporting. We specifically focused on CPGs addressing the pharmacologic management of major chronic diseases, including musculoskeletal diseases (rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, axial spondyloarthritis, and psoriatic arthritis), diabetes, and hypertension. We focused on these conditions because of their prevalence and global burden of disease [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec4"><title>Study design</title><p id="Par20">This is a scoping review of studies assessing the impact of adherence to CPGs for pharmacologic management on clinical outcomes. A scoping review was the study design of choice as we aimed to examine how research is conducted on a certain topic, i.e., impact of adherence to CPGs [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>]. We conducted the scoping review in accordance with the JBI Manual for Evidence Synthesis [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>]. A pre-defined protocol is available on Open Science Framework (OSF) (osf.io/r2ke8). We reported this review in accordance with Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR) reporting guideline [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>] (Additional file 1: Table S1).</p></sec><sec id="Sec5"><title>Eligibility criteria</title><p id="Par21">We included studies that met the following criteria, listed according to the PCC (population, concept, context) framework [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>]:<list list-type="bullet"><list-item><p id="Par22">Population: address at least one of the following chronic diseases: musculoskeletal diseases (rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, axial spondyloarthritis, or psoriatic arthritis), hypertension, or diabetes in non-pregnant adult patients</p></list-item><list-item><p id="Par23">Concept: explicitly state that at least one of their objectives was to assess the impact of adherence to CPGs on clinical outcomes for the pharmacologic management of patients</p></list-item><list-item><p id="Par24">Context: any contextual setting</p></list-item></list></p><p id="Par25">We excluded case reports, case series, editorials, economical studies, and cost-effectiveness assessments. We also excluded studies published in languages other than English and those published before January 2013, as we aim to explore the latest methods used to assess the impact of adherence to CPGs on health outcomes. We excluded studies that evaluated the impact of an intervention to increase adherence to CPGs.</p></sec><sec id="Sec6"><title>Data sources and searches</title><p id="Par26">A comprehensive search strategy was developed to identify relevant studies in PubMed (Additional file 1: Table S2). The search strategy combined free text and Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) terms for the following concepts: adherence, clinical practice guideline, musculoskeletal diseases, diabetes, and hypertension. We ran the search on March 3, 2023. We limited our search to articles published in the last 10 years (from January 2013) because we aimed to explore the latest methods used to assess the impact of adherence to CPGs on outcomes, in light of the surge in development of CPGs in the last decade. We also searched the websites of relevant national and international guideline-producing organizations such as National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE), World Health Organization (WHO), American Diabetes Association (ADA), European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD), American Heart Association (AHA), American College of Cardiology (ACC), European Society of Cardiology (ESC), American College of Rheumatology (ACR), and European Alliance of Associations for Rheumatology (EULAR).</p></sec><sec id="Sec7"><title>Study selection</title><p id="Par27">A single reviewer (BY) screened the titles and abstracts of the retrieved articles in Zotero to identify potentially relevant studies. The full texts were then screened against the eligibility criteria by a single reviewer (BY). We documented the following reasons for exclusions at the full-text level: not study type of interest, not population of interest, not medical condition of interest, not on pharmacologic management, not objective of interest, not assessing specific CPG, and economic or cost-effectiveness studies. A second reviewer (SY) independently screened 20% of the titles and abstracts (kappa&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.85) and 20% of the full texts for quality assurance (kappa&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.94).</p></sec><sec id="Sec8"><title>Data extraction</title><p id="Par28">We extracted data using a piloted-standardized form in Microsoft Excel. Two reviewers extracted the data in duplicate and independently (BY, SY, CR). Discrepancies were resolved by discussion or by a third reviewer (SY, IB).</p><p id="Par29">We extracted data on the following topics:<list list-type="bullet"><list-item><p id="Par30">General study characteristics (e.g., chronic condition, geographic region, setting, number of centers, number of participants included, number of participants analyzed, and follow-up duration)</p></list-item><list-item><p id="Par31">Reporting and description of the elements of the research question (using the PICO format):<list list-type="simple"><list-item><label>o</label><p id="Par32">Participants (whether eligibility criteria were reported)</p></list-item><list-item><label>o</label><p id="Par33">Intervention (guideline-producing organization, recommendations to which the impact of adherence was assessed, and definition of adherence (whether reported and whether sufficient details are provided to allow replication))</p></list-item><list-item><label>o</label><p id="Par34">Comparator (whether the comparator was reported, definition of comparator, and whether the definition was mutually exclusive to the definition of the intervention)</p></list-item><list-item><label>o</label><p id="Par35">Outcomes (whether the primary outcome was reported, whether the study considered effectiveness or safety outcome, and type of outcome)</p></list-item></list></p></list-item><list-item><p id="Par36">Study design, methods, and reporting:<list list-type="simple"><list-item><label>o</label><p id="Par37">Design and data (study design, sources of study data, and sources of routinely collected data)</p></list-item><list-item><label>o</label><p id="Par38">Confounding factors, statistical considerations (whether confounding factors were reported, method used to identify confounding factors, method used to account for confounding factors, method used for handling missing data), and risk of bias in selection of participants into the study</p></list-item></list></p></list-item></list></p><p id="Par39">The latter was assessed according to the domain &#x0201c;Bias in selection of participants into the study&#x0201d; of the ROBINS-I (Risk Of Bias In Non-randomised Studies&#x02014;of Interventions) tool, using the signaling questions (answer options: yes, probably yes, probably no, no, no information, and not applicable), which result in an overall risk of bias for the domain (low, moderate, serious, critical) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>]. We focused on this domain as clinical content experts were not needed to conduct the assessment.</p></sec><sec id="Sec9"><title>Data analysis</title><p id="Par40">We used a qualitative descriptive approach to analyze and present our findings. Data were organized according to the pre-defined themes &#x0201c;General study characteristics,&#x0201d; &#x0201c;Reporting and description of the PICO elements,&#x0201d; and &#x0201c;<xref rid="Sec18" ref-type="sec">Study design, methods, and reporting</xref>.&#x0201d; Within each theme, we provided a narrative summary supported by descriptive statistics where appropriate. We conducted descriptive statistics to summarize our findings in narrative and tabular formats. We reported the median (interquartile range [IQR] 25th percentile; 75th percentile) for continuous outcomes and frequencies and percentages for categorical outcomes. We used IBM SPSS Statistics V.21 for the data analysis.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec10"><title>Results</title><p id="Par41">Our search yielded a total of 7952 records. After removing duplicates, we screened the titles and abstracts of 7926 articles, from which we included 168 records for full-text screening. We excluded 154 studies for reasons including not objective of interest (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;97) and not study type of interest (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;18). A list of excluded studies is reported in Additional file 1: Table S3. We included a total of 16 studies [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>]. The studies assessed the impact of adherence to CPGs for diabetes (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;8), hypertension (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;6), and axial spondyloarthritis (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;2). No studies were conducted in adults with rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, or psoriatic arthritis. The PRISMA flow diagram is presented in Additional file 1: Fig. S1.</p><sec id="Sec11"><title>General study characteristics</title><p id="Par42">Table <xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref> presents the general characteristics of the included studies. Most studies were conducted in North America (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;6) or East Asia and the Pacific (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;4). Fewer than half of the studies were conducted in a primary health care setting (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;7). The number of centers was reported in fewer than half of the studies (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;6/16), with a median number of 6 centers (IQR 2; 11). The median number of participants included was 610 (IQR 350; 11,587), whereas the median number of participants analyzed was 511 (IQR 350; 10,536). The median follow-up time was 9 months (IQR 4; 18). A summary table of the general characteristics of the included studies is provided in Additional file 1: Table S4.
<table-wrap id="Tab1"><label>Table 1</label><caption><p>General characteristics (<italic>N</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;16)</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left">Author, year</th><th align="left">Chronic disease</th><th align="left">Region</th><th align="left">Setting</th><th align="left">Number of centers</th><th align="left">Number of participants included</th><th align="left">Number of participants analyzed</th><th align="left">Follow-up (months)</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">Luo et al., 2021&#x000a0;[<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>]</td><td align="left">Diabetes</td><td align="left">East Asia and Pacific</td><td align="left">Primary care</td><td align="left">NR</td><td align="left">25,087</td><td align="left">23,848</td><td align="left">3</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Alkhiari et al., 2017 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>]</td><td align="left">Diabetes</td><td align="left">North America</td><td align="left">Tertiary care</td><td align="left">2</td><td align="left">108</td><td align="left">108</td><td align="left">0.3</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Harvard et al., 2017 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>]</td><td align="left">Axial spondyloarthritis</td><td align="left">Europe and Central Asia</td><td align="left">Secondary care</td><td align="left">NR</td><td align="left">469</td><td align="left">469</td><td align="left">36</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Lopez-Medina et al., 2017 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>]</td><td align="left">Axial spondyloarthritis</td><td align="left">Europe and Central Asia</td><td align="left">Secondary care</td><td align="left">NR</td><td align="left">708</td><td align="left">708</td><td align="left">60</td></tr><tr><td align="left"> Rowan et al.,&#x000a0;2014 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>]
</td><td align="left">Hypertension</td><td align="left">North America</td><td align="left">Primary care</td><td align="left">11</td><td align="left">14,910</td><td align="left">13,508</td><td align="left">6</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Sohn et al., 2021 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>]</td><td align="left">Hypertension</td><td align="left">East Asia and Pacific</td><td align="left">Tertiary care</td><td align="left">16</td><td align="left">600</td><td align="left">502</td><td align="left">6</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Novello et al., 2016 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR21">21</xref>]</td><td align="left">Hypertension</td><td align="left">Latin America and Caribbean</td><td align="left">Primary care</td><td align="left">NR</td><td align="left">332</td><td align="left">332</td><td align="left">NR</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Lian et al., 2014 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR22">22</xref>]</td><td align="left">Diabetes</td><td align="left">North America</td><td align="left">Primary care</td><td align="left">NR</td><td align="left">1488</td><td align="left">1337</td><td align="left">12</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Saher et al., 2022 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>]</td><td align="left">Diabetes</td><td align="left">South Asia</td><td align="left">Primary care</td><td align="left">NR</td><td align="left">450</td><td align="left">450</td><td align="left">3.5</td></tr><tr><td align="left"> Lewing et al.,&#x000a0;2022&#x000a0;[<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>]
</td><td align="left">Diabetes</td><td align="left">North America</td><td align="left">NR</td><td align="left">NR</td><td align="left">1619</td><td align="left">1619</td><td align="left">12</td></tr><tr><td align="left"> Mehta et al.,&#x000a0;2020&#x000a0;[<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>]
</td><td align="left">Diabetes</td><td align="left">North America</td><td align="left">Primary and secondary care</td><td align="left">NR</td><td align="left">21,171</td><td align="left">21,171</td><td align="left">18</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Chatterjee et al., 2020 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR26">26</xref>]</td><td align="left">Diabetes</td><td align="left">South Asia</td><td align="left">Primary care</td><td align="left">NR</td><td align="left">145</td><td align="left">145</td><td align="left">132</td></tr><tr><td align="left"> Gabler et al.,&#x000a0;2021&#x000a0;[<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR27">27</xref>]
</td><td align="left">Diabetes</td><td align="left">Europe and Central Asia</td><td align="left">Primary and secondary care</td><td align="left">NR</td><td align="left">32,916</td><td align="left">28,456</td><td align="left">12</td></tr><tr><td align="left"> Ahmad et al.,&#x000a0;2013&#x000a0;[<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR28">28</xref>]
</td><td align="left">Hypertension</td><td align="left">East Asia and Pacific</td><td align="left">Tertiary care</td><td align="left">4</td><td align="left">620</td><td align="left">520</td><td align="left">4</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Teoh et al., 2016 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR29">29</xref>]</td><td align="left">Hypertension</td><td align="left">East Asia and Pacific</td><td align="left">Primary care</td><td align="left">7</td><td align="left">331</td><td align="left">331</td><td align="left">6</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Posen et al., 2021 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>]</td><td align="left">Hypertension</td><td align="left">North America</td><td align="left">Tertiary care</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">402</td><td align="left">402</td><td align="left">NR</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p><italic>NR</italic> not reported</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p></sec><sec id="Sec12"><title>Reporting and description of the PICO elements</title><p id="Par43">Table <xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref> summarizes the PICO elements and their reporting in the included studies. Figure&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref> provides a visual summary.
<table-wrap id="Tab2"><label>Table 2</label><caption><p>Study design and methods of the included studies (<italic>N</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;16)</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left" colspan="2">Variable</th><th align="left">Frequency</th></tr><tr><th align="left" colspan="3"><bold><italic>PICO elements</italic></bold></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left" colspan="3"><bold>Participants</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Eligibility criteria of participants reported</td><td align="left">Yes</td><td align="left">15</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Sample size determination reported</td><td align="left">Yes</td><td align="left">2</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>Interventions</bold></td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Description of the intervention (adherence)</td><td align="left">Yes</td><td align="left">15</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="2">Adherence to</td><td align="left">Entire CPG</td><td align="left">12</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Specific recommendations</td><td align="left">4</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="3"><bold>Comparators</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="3">Comparison</td><td align="left">Adherence vs non-adherence to same CPG</td><td align="left">14</td></tr><tr><td align="left">High adherence vs low/intermediate adherence</td><td align="left">1</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Adherence to CPGs vs before implementation of CPGs</td><td align="left">1</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Description of the comparator</td><td align="left">Yes</td><td align="left">5</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Treatment deviation defined</td><td align="left">No</td><td align="left">16</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="3"><bold>Outcomes</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Primary outcome identified</td><td align="left">Yes</td><td align="left">3</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="2">Outcome(s)</td><td align="left">Effectiveness</td><td align="left">8</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Effectiveness and safety</td><td align="left">8</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="4">Type of outcome(s)</td><td align="left">Surrogate</td><td align="left">8</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Clinical</td><td align="left">2</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Patient-reported</td><td align="left">2</td></tr><tr><td align="left">More than one*</td><td align="left">4</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="3"><bold><italic>Study design and methods</italic></bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="3"><bold>Design and data</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Study design as judged</td><td align="left">Cohort</td><td align="left">16</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="4">Data used</td><td align="left">Routinely collected data</td><td align="left">7</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Standardized data collection from an existing cohort</td><td align="left">4</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Standardized data collection for the purpose of the study</td><td align="left">2</td></tr><tr><td align="left">More than one&#x02020;</td><td align="left">3</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="3">Sources of routinely collected data (<italic>N</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;10)</td><td align="left">Non-electronic health records</td><td align="left">4</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Electronic health record</td><td align="left">3</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Administrative data</td><td align="left">3</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="3"><bold>Confounding factors and statistical considerations</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Confounding factors reported</td><td align="left">Yes</td><td align="left">12</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="2">Identification of confounding factors (<italic>N</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;13)</td><td align="left">Statistical methods&#x02021;</td><td align="left">8</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Factors are listed only, with no justification</td><td align="left">5</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="3">Accounting for confounding factors (<italic>N</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;13)</td><td align="left">Matching with propensity score</td><td align="left">1</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Regression</td><td align="left">11</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Inverse probability weighting</td><td align="left">1</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="3">Handling missing data (<italic>N</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;6)</td><td align="left">Complete case analysis</td><td align="left">3</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Multiple imputations</td><td align="left">1</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Other&#x000a7;</td><td align="left">2</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p><sup>*</sup>Surrogate and clinical (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;3), surrogate and patient-reported (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;1)</p><p><sup>&#x02020;</sup>Routinely collected data and standardized data collection from a cohort for the purpose of the study (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;3)</p><p><sup>&#x02021;</sup>Univariable analysis (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;6), covariate imbalance (standardized difference&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;0.01) (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;1), backward stepwise approach (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;1)</p><p><sup>&#x000a7;</sup>Several methods applied together such as mixed-model estimation, multiple imputation, last observation carried forward, probabilistic imputation, or negative values based on clinical expertise</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap><fig id="Fig1"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;1</label><caption><p>Summary of the included studies.&#x000a0;*Axial spondyloarthritis only</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4257_Fig1_HTML" id="MO1"/></fig></p><sec id="Sec13"><title>Participants</title><p id="Par44">The eligibility criteria of participants were clearly defined in most of the studies (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;15/16).</p></sec><sec id="Sec14"><title>Interventions</title><p id="Par45">All studies reported the guideline-producing organization(s). However, only three studies clearly reported the recommendations of the CPG that were evaluated and 12 stated that they assessed the impact of adherence to the entire CPG with only one indicating which recommendation was considered.</p><p id="Par46">Fifteen studies provided a definition of adherence to CPGs and one did not provide any definition. However, nine studies provided sufficient details on the intervention to allow replication. Additional details are provided in Additional file 1: Table S5.</p></sec><sec id="Sec15"><title>Comparators</title><p id="Par47">Most studies compared adherence with non-adherence to the same CPG (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;14). One study compared high adherence with low or intermediate adherence and one compared outcomes when CPGs were adhered to versus outcomes before the implementation of the CPGs. The comparator was explicitly defined in five studies, out of which, two were not mutually exclusive to the definition of adherence (Additional file 1: Table S5).</p></sec><sec id="Sec16"><title>Outcomes</title><p id="Par48">Only three studies defined their primary outcome(s). Considering all the outcomes reported, half of the studies focused on effectiveness outcomes only (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;8) and the other half focused on both effectiveness and safety outcomes (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;8). In addition, half of the studies evaluated only surrogate outcomes (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;8), while others evaluated clinical outcomes (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;2), patient-reported outcomes (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;2), or a combination (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;4). A list of outcomes is reported in Additional file 1: Table S5.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec17"><title>Study design, methods, and reporting</title><p id="Par49">Table <xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref> summarizes the design and methods of the included studies.</p><sec id="Sec18"><title>Design and data</title><p id="Par50">All studies were observational with none emulating a target trial. All studies were considered cohort studies (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;16). Data used were obtained from routinely collected data (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;7), existing cohorts of patients (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;4), cohorts conducted for the purpose of the study (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;2), or a combination of these data sources (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;3). The sources of routinely collected data (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;10) were non-electronic health records (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;4), electronic health records (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;3), or administrative databases (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;3).</p></sec><sec id="Sec19"><title>Confounding factors, statistical considerations, and risk of bias in selection of participants into the study</title><p id="Par51">Most studies accounted for confounding factors (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;13). In five studies, the confounding factors were listed only, without a justification. The most common method used to account for confounding was regression (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;11). Six studies reported methods for handling missing data, such as complete case analysis (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;3).</p><p id="Par52">Using ROBINS-I, we identified a total of 10 studies that selected participants into the study based on participant characteristics observed after the start of intervention (i.e., post-intervention variables) which were likely associated with or influenced by the intervention and outcome. In addition, in nine studies, the start of follow-up and start of the intervention did not coincide for most participants (i.e., inclusion of prevalent users) and no studies reported adjustment techniques to correct for selection bias. Consequently, there was critical risk of bias in selection of participants into the study in seven studies, serious risk in six studies, and low risk in three studies. Of note, the three studies with low risk of bias also accounted for confounding factors. The detailed assessment of the risk of bias using ROBINS-I is reported in Additional file 1: Table S6.</p></sec></sec></sec><sec id="Sec20"><title>Discussion</title><p id="Par53">Every year, clinical practice guidelines are produced for different medical conditions. The main guideline-producing organizations in Europe and the USA produced 30 CPGs for musculoskeletal diseases, diabetes, and hypertension over the same period (2013&#x02013;2023) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR31">31</xref>]. These CPGs include more than 500 recommendations on the pharmacologic management of these conditions. However, the impact of adherence to CPGs is rarely evaluated, as we identified only 16 studies. This aligns with findings from a systematic review by Ament et al., which highlighted the scarcity of studies on professionals&#x02019; adherence to CPGs in medical care [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR32">32</xref>]. Furthermore, we did not identify any eligible study in musculoskeletal diseases, except axial spondyloarthritis, which might reflect either the lack of evidence for these conditions or the presence of studies outside the scope of our study.</p><p id="Par54">Moreover, when studies were available, their methods and reporting were questionable. We identified inadequate reporting regarding to which recommendations adherence was assessed, with only four studies explicitly reporting the recommendations for which adherence was assessed. In addition, we identified insufficiently detailed definitions of adherence to allow replicability, with only nine studies providing sufficient details of the intervention. Similarly for the definition of the comparator (i.e., non-adherence), with only five studies providing explicit definitions. The definitions of adherence and non-adherence varied across studies, ranging from vague or implicit definitions to precise but non-standardized definitions. Milchak et al. highlight how studies measuring adherence to CPGs do not explicitly define adherence [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR33">33</xref>]. Another systematic review assessing the impact of diabetes and heart failure guideline adherence stated that one challenge was the definition of adherence, specifically that studies did not provide sufficient details, limiting their generalizability [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR34">34</xref>]. Similarly, a scoping review on the use of process mining techniques to assess adherence to CPGs found discrepancies in adherence definitions [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR35">35</xref>].</p><p id="Par55">Half of the identified studies mainly relied on surrogate outcomes (8 out of 16 studies), which can provide ambiguous evidence and are subject to the researcher&#x02019;s interpretation and definitions, possibly introducing bias. For instance, outcomes like changes in biomarkers may not directly reflect improvements in patient health or quality of life. Notably, their use is widespread, where it is estimated that between 20 and 80% of trials employ surrogate outcomes as primary endpoints [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR36">36</xref>].</p><p id="Par56">In addition, most studies were at risk of bias, including serious or critical risk of bias in the selection of participants into the study (12 out of 16 studies), and not account for confounding factors in three studies. A similar finding of Ament et al., where the studies were of high risk of bias [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR32">32</xref>]. Another systematic review on the outcomes of chemotherapy&#x02011;induced nausea and vomiting guideline adherence showed that all 21 included studies were of moderate or greater risk of bias [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR37">37</xref>].</p><sec id="Sec21"><title>Strengths and limitations</title><p id="Par57">One strength of this scoping review is that we were able to explore a wide range of topics in studies that assess the impact of adherence to CPGs, allowing us to identify several gaps and drawbacks in designs, methods, and reporting. In addition, the data extraction was conducted in duplicate.</p><p id="Par58">One limitation is that we may have missed some studies by searching only one electronic database which is often considered sufficient in order to provide an overview of the methodological aspects of studies. Even though kappa showed agreement between the two reviewers, with only one reviewer performing the study selection, errors might still exist. In addition, we did not assess the risk of all domains of bias. We opted to focus on biases by design, and the risk of bias domain &#x0201c;Bias in selection of participants into the study&#x0201d; was particularly relevant due to its prevalence in observational studies, in addition to the studies differing in specialty, where clinical expertise would have been needed.</p></sec><sec id="Sec22"><title>Implications for practice and research</title><p id="Par59">A tremendous amount of work has been done to enhance the development of guidelines, from methods to assess the certainty of the evidence (e.g., Grading of Recommendation, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation&#x02014;GRADE) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR38">38</xref>] to guidance on going from evidence to recommendations (e.g., GRADE-evidence to decision framework) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR39">39</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR40">40</xref>], as well as guidance on the process of guideline development (e.g., GIN-McMaster checklist) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>], assessing the quality of guidelines (e.g., AGREE-II) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR41">41</xref>] and reporting (e.g., RIGHT checklist) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR42">42</xref>]. However, the impact of CPGs needs to be evaluated, specifically when only 25% of the recommendations for the considered conditions are based on high level of evidence (14% for musculoskeletal diseases, 47% for hypertension, and 38% for diabetes) (unpublished data). The scientific community must conduct studies to evaluate the impact of CPGs, to address the gap in the literature, and to provide higher quality studies. Specifically, future studies should address conditions where studies on guideline adherence are scarcely conducted (such as rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis and psoriatic arthritis, and axial spondyloarthritis). Moreover, future scoping reviews assessing studies in conditions that are not necessarily prevalent or have high burden of disease would be valuable in order to better understand the generalizability of our findings across all conditions.</p><p id="Par60">Additionally, future research should aim to standardize how adherence is defined and measured. The current inconsistency in operationalizing adherence limits comparability across studies and the synthesis of evidence. Developing a conceptual framework or taxonomy for defining adherence, building on the Template for Intervention Description and Replication (TIDieR) checklist [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR43">43</xref>], while also considering specific recommendation elements (e.g., dosage, timing, treatment sequence) would facilitate harmonization of research efforts and improve completeness of reporting.</p><p id="Par61">While surrogate outcomes provide advantages in certain situations, it is important to cautiously interpret them considering several points such as indirectness, validation, magnitude of effects, risk benefit balance, and uncertainty [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR44">44</xref>]. Future research efforts should prioritize a set of outcomes to be evaluated when assessing adherence to CPGs; incorporating core outcome sets and adapting them to the context of CPG adherence. The prioritized set of outcomes would include clinically and patient-important outcomes, along with appropriate surrogate outcomes informed by evidence, when relevant.</p><p id="Par62">Considering that randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of guideline adherence might be difficult or unfeasible, future work should focus on providing guidance on assessing the impact of adherence to CPGs on clinical outcomes, using appropriate study designs and methodology to limit biases. While target trial emulation, i.e., observational study is designed to &#x0201c;mimic&#x0201d; an RCT to avoid major errors and pitfalls [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR45">45</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR46">46</xref>], has already been applied to assess the impact of CPGs in other contexts, such as for the prevention of prostate cancer [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>], future research should explore the implementation of the target trial emulation framework and its applicability in the context of assessing the impact of CPGs.</p><p id="Par63">Finally, our findings extend to other interest holders. Guideline developers should take an active role in assessing the real-world impact of their CPGs, as part of their guideline development process [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>]. This includes planning for post-publication evaluation strategies to monitor adherence and its association with clinically important outcomes. Moreover, health systems should prioritize evaluating the real-world impact of guidelines to guide implementation efforts effectively. Through these efforts, we are able to identify recommendations that are poorly implemented, ineffective, or potentially harmful in real-world settings. For clinicians and patients, our findings reinforce the importance of personalized care and shared decision-making. Clinicians should adhere to CPGs with careful judgment, considering the patient&#x02019;s context, values, and preferences. Strengthening the evidence on real-world outcomes can support more meaningful informed decision-making between clinicians and patients.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec23"><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par64">In conclusion, only a limited number of studies have assessed the impact of adherence to CPGs on the pharmacologic management of musculoskeletal diseases, diabetes, and hypertension. Given the methodological and reporting concerns identified, caution should be exercised when interpreting these studies. Future research should employ rigorous study designs and reporting standards to generate more reliable insights into the impact of CPG adherence.</p></sec><sec id="Sec24" sec-type="supplementary-material"><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>
<supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM1"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4257_MOESM1_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Additional file 1: Figure S1 and Tables S1&#x02013;S6. Fig. S1. PRISMA flow diagram for study selection. Table S1. PRISMA-ScR checklist. Table S2. Search strategy for PubMed searched on March 3, 2023. Table S3. List of excluded studies per reason of exclusion. Table S4. General study characteristics. Table S5. Adherence to clinical practice guidelines. Table S6. Risk of bias in selection of participants into the study</p></caption></media></supplementary-material></p></sec></body><back><glossary><title>Abbreviations</title><def-list><def-item><term>ACC</term><def><p id="Par8">American College of Cardiology</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>AHA</term><def><p id="Par9">American Heart Association</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CPG</term><def><p id="Par10">Clinical practice guideline</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>IQR</term><def><p id="Par11">Interquartile range</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MeSH</term><def><p id="Par12">Medical Subject Headings</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PRISMA-ScR</term><def><p id="Par13">Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ROBINS-I</term><def><p id="Par14">Risk Of Bias In Non-randomised Studies&#x02014;of Interventions</p></def></def-item></def-list></glossary><fn-group><fn><p><bold>Publisher's Note</bold></p><p>Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.</p></fn></fn-group><ack><title>Acknowledgements</title><p>We thank Ms. Soodabeh Behboodi and Ms. Elora Jessen for their contributions to the data extraction. We thank Dr. Ruth Tunn for proofreading the manuscript.</p></ack><notes notes-type="author-contribution"><title>Author Contribution</title><p>SY and IB designed the study. BY ran the searches and BY and SY assessed the eligibility of studies. BY, SY and CR extracted data. BY and SY synthesized the results. BY, SY and IB wrote the manuscript. RP, PR and IB edited the manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.</p></notes><notes notes-type="funding-information"><title>Funding</title><p>No funding was received.</p></notes><notes notes-type="data-availability"><title>Data availability</title><p>Data are available in a public, open access repository. All datasets are available online on&#x000a0;osf.io/r2ke8 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR47">47</xref>].</p></notes><notes><title>Declarations</title><notes id="FPar1"><title>Ethics approval and consent to participate</title><p id="Par65">Not applicable.</p></notes><notes id="FPar3"><title>Consent for publication</title><p id="Par66">Not applicable.</p></notes><notes id="FPar4" notes-type="COI-statement"><title>Competing interests</title><p id="Par67">The authors declare no competing interests.
</p></notes></notes><ref-list id="Bib1"><title>References
</title><ref id="CR1"><label>1.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Institute of Medicine Committee on Standards for Developing Trustworthy Clinical Practice G. Clinical practice guidelines we can trust. In: Graham R, Mancher M, Miller Wolman D, Greenfield S, Steinberg E, editors. Clinical practice guidelines we can trust. Washington (DC): National Academies Press (US); 2011.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR2"><label>2.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Busse R, Klazinga N, Panteli D, Quentin W. European observatory health policy series. In: Busse R, Klazinga N, Panteli D, Quentin W, editors. Improving healthcare quality in Europe: characteristics, effectiveness and implementation of different strategies. Copenhagen: European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies; 2019.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR3"><label>3.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Guidelines International Network (GIN). Guidelines International Network. 2024. Available from: <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://guidelines.ebmportal.com/guidelines-international-network">https://guidelines.ebmportal.com/guidelines-international-network</ext-link>.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR4"><label>4.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR4" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Tan</surname><given-names>J-Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>X-L</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhao</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Barriers and enablers to implementing clinical practice guidelines in primary care: an overview of systematic reviews</article-title><source>BMJ Open</source><year>2023</year><volume>13</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>e062158</fpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR4" publication-type="journal">Wang T, Tan J-Y, Liu X-L, Zhao I. Barriers and enablers to implementing clinical practice guidelines in primary care: an overview of systematic reviews. BMJ Open. 2023;13(1): e062158.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR5"><label>5.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Shehu E, Kugler CM, Sch&#x000e4;fer N, Rosen D, Schaefer C, K&#x000f6;tter T, Follmann M, Pieper D. Barriers and facilitators of adherence to clinical practice guidelines in Germany-A systematic review. J Eval Clin Pract. 2025;31(3):e14173. 10.1111/jep.14173. Epub 2024 Oct 16. PMID: 39415487; PMCID: PMC12021332.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR6"><label>6.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR6" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sch&#x000fc;nemann</surname><given-names>HJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Wiercioch</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Etxeandia</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Falavigna</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Santesso</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Mustafa</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Guidelines 2.0: systematic development of a comprehensive checklist for a successful guideline enterprise</article-title><source>CMAJ</source><year>2014</year><volume>186</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>E123</fpage><lpage>42</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24344144</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR6" publication-type="journal">Sch&#x000fc;nemann HJ, Wiercioch W, Etxeandia I, Falavigna M, Santesso N, Mustafa R, et al. Guidelines 2.0: systematic development of a comprehensive checklist for a successful guideline enterprise. CMAJ. 2014;186(3):E123-42.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24344144</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR7"><label>7.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR7" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Fanaroff</surname><given-names>AC</given-names></name><name><surname>Califf</surname><given-names>RM</given-names></name><name><surname>Windecker</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Smith</surname><given-names>SC</given-names><suffix>Jr</suffix></name><name><surname>Lopes</surname><given-names>RD</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Levels of evidence supporting American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association and European Society of Cardiology guidelines, 2008&#x02013;2018</article-title><source>JAMA</source><year>2019</year><volume>321</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>1069</fpage><lpage>1080</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30874755</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR7" publication-type="journal">Fanaroff AC, Califf RM, Windecker S, Smith SC Jr, Lopes RD. Levels of evidence supporting American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association and European Society of Cardiology guidelines, 2008&#x02013;2018. JAMA. 2019;321(11):1069&#x02013;80.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30874755</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR8"><label>8.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR8" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Pellat</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Boutron</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Coriat</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Ravaud</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Levels of evidence supporting United States guidelines in pancreatic adenocarcinoma treatment</article-title><source>Cancers</source><year>2022</year><volume>14</volume><issue>16</issue><fpage>4062</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36011054</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR8" publication-type="journal">Pellat A, Boutron I, Coriat R, Ravaud P. Levels of evidence supporting United States guidelines in pancreatic adenocarcinoma treatment. Cancers. 2022;14(16):4062.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36011054</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR9"><label>9.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Guo F, McGee EE, Chiu YH, Giovannucci E, Mucci LA, Dickerman BA. Evaluating recommendation based dietary and physical activity strategies for prostate cancer prevention: a target trial emulation in the Health Professionals Follow-up Study. Am J Epidemiol. 2025;194(2):449&#x02013;59. 10.1093/aje/kwae184. PMID: 38973750; PMCID: PMC12034833.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR10"><label>10.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR10" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Vos</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Lim</surname><given-names>SS</given-names></name><name><surname>Abbafati</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Abbas</surname><given-names>KM</given-names></name><name><surname>Abbasi</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Abbasifard</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Global burden of 369 diseases and injuries in 204 countries and territories, 1990&#x02013;2019: a systematic analysis for the global burden of disease study 2019</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2020</year><volume>396</volume><issue>10258</issue><fpage>1204</fpage><lpage>1222</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33069326</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR10" publication-type="journal">Vos T, Lim SS, Abbafati C, Abbas KM, Abbasi M, Abbasifard M, et al. Global burden of 369 diseases and injuries in 204 countries and territories, 1990&#x02013;2019: a systematic analysis for the global burden of disease study 2019. Lancet. 2020;396(10258):1204&#x02013;22.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33069326</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR11"><label>11.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR11" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Munn</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Peters</surname><given-names>MDJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Stern</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Tufanaru</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>McArthur</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Aromataris</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Systematic review or scoping review? Guidance for authors when choosing between a systematic or scoping review approach</article-title><source>BMC Med Res Methodol</source><year>2018</year><volume>18</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>143</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30453902</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR11" publication-type="journal">Munn Z, Peters MDJ, Stern C, Tufanaru C, McArthur A, Aromataris E. Systematic review or scoping review? Guidance for authors when choosing between a systematic or scoping review approach. BMC Med Res Methodol. 2018;18(1):143.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30453902</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR12"><label>12.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR12" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Peters</surname><given-names>MDJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Marnie</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Tricco</surname><given-names>AC</given-names></name><name><surname>Pollock</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Munn</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Alexander</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Updated methodological guidance for the conduct of scoping reviews</article-title><source>JBI Evidence synthesis</source><year>2020</year><volume>18</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>2119</fpage><lpage>2126</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33038124</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR12" publication-type="journal">Peters MDJ, Marnie C, Tricco AC, Pollock D, Munn Z, Alexander L, et al. Updated methodological guidance for the conduct of scoping reviews. JBI Evidence synthesis. 2020;18(10):2119&#x02013;26.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33038124</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR13"><label>13.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR13" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Tricco</surname><given-names>AC</given-names></name><name><surname>Lillie</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Zarin</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>O&#x02019;Brien</surname><given-names>KK</given-names></name><name><surname>Colquhoun</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Levac</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>PRISMA extension for scoping reviews (PRISMA-ScR): checklist and explanation</article-title><source>Ann Intern Med</source><year>2018</year><volume>169</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>467</fpage><lpage>473</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30178033</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR13" publication-type="journal">Tricco AC, Lillie E, Zarin W, O&#x02019;Brien KK, Colquhoun H, Levac D, et al. PRISMA extension for scoping reviews (PRISMA-ScR): checklist and explanation. Ann Intern Med. 2018;169(7):467&#x02013;73.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30178033</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR14"><label>14.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR14" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sterne</surname><given-names>JA</given-names></name><name><surname>Hern&#x000e1;n</surname><given-names>MA</given-names></name><name><surname>Reeves</surname><given-names>BC</given-names></name><name><surname>Savovi&#x00107;</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Berkman</surname><given-names>ND</given-names></name><name><surname>Viswanathan</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>ROBINS-I: a tool for assessing risk of bias in non-randomised studies of interventions</article-title><source>BMJ (Clinical research ed)</source><year>2016</year><volume>355</volume><fpage>i4919</fpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR14" publication-type="journal">Sterne JA, Hern&#x000e1;n MA, Reeves BC, Savovi&#x00107; J, Berkman ND, Viswanathan M, et al. ROBINS-I: a tool for assessing risk of bias in non-randomised studies of interventions. BMJ (Clinical research ed). 2016;355: i4919.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR15"><label>15.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR15" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Luo</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Liao</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhao</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Cui</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>A guideline-based decision tree achieves better glucose control with less hypoglycemia at 3 months in Chinese diabetic patients</article-title><source>Diabetes therapy : research, treatment and education of diabetes and related disorders</source><year>2021</year><volume>12</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>1887</fpage><lpage>1899</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34050897</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR15" publication-type="journal">Luo Y, Wu H, Liao X, Zhao T, Cui N, Li A, et al. A guideline-based decision tree achieves better glucose control with less hypoglycemia at 3 months in Chinese diabetic patients. Diabetes therapy&#x0202f;: research, treatment and education of diabetes and related disorders. 2021;12(7):1887&#x02013;99.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34050897</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR16"><label>16.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR16" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Alkhiari</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Alzayer</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Aljazeeri</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Vanniyasingam</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Punthakee</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Adherence to guidelines for inpatient pharmacologic management of type 2 diabetes in adults and glycemic outcomes</article-title><source>Can J Diabetes</source><year>2018</year><volume>42</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>158</fpage><lpage>162</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28662968</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR16" publication-type="journal">Alkhiari R, Alzayer H, Aljazeeri J, Vanniyasingam T, Punthakee Z. Adherence to guidelines for inpatient pharmacologic management of type 2 diabetes in adults and glycemic outcomes. Can J Diabetes. 2018;42(2):158&#x02013;62.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28662968</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR17"><label>17.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Harvard S, Guh D, Bansback N, Richette P, Saraux A, Fautrel B, Anis AH. Adherence to Antitumor Necrosis Factor Use Recommendations in Spondyloarthritis: Measurement and Effect in the DESIR Cohort. J Rheumatol. 2017;44(10):1436&#x02013;44. 10.3899/jrheum.161399. Epub 2017 Jul 1. PMID: 28668809.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR18"><label>18.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR18" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>L&#x000f3;pez-Medina</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Dougados</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Collantes-Est&#x000e9;vez</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Molt&#x000f3;</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Adherence to recommendations for the use of anti-tumour necrosis factor and its impact over 5 years of follow-up in axial spondyloarthritis</article-title><source>Rheumatology (Oxford)</source><year>2018</year><volume>57</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>880</fpage><lpage>890</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29474666</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR18" publication-type="journal">L&#x000f3;pez-Medina C, Dougados M, Collantes-Est&#x000e9;vez E, Molt&#x000f3; A. Adherence to recommendations for the use of anti-tumour necrosis factor and its impact over 5 years of follow-up in axial spondyloarthritis. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2018;57(5):880&#x02013;90.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29474666</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR19"><label>19.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR19" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Rowan</surname><given-names>CG</given-names></name><name><surname>Turner</surname><given-names>JR</given-names></name><name><surname>Shah</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Spaeder</surname><given-names>JA</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Antihypertensive treatment and blood pressure control relative to hypertension treatment guidelines</article-title><source>Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf</source><year>2014</year><volume>23</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>1294</fpage><lpage>1302</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25171163</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR19" publication-type="journal">Rowan CG, Turner JR, Shah A, Spaeder JA. Antihypertensive treatment and blood pressure control relative to hypertension treatment guidelines. Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf. 2014;23(12):1294&#x02013;302.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25171163</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR20"><label>20.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR20" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sohn</surname><given-names>IS</given-names></name><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>CJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Yoo</surname><given-names>BS</given-names></name><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>BJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Choi</surname><given-names>JW</given-names></name><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>DI</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Clinical impact of guideline-based practice and patients&#x02019; adherence in uncontrolled hypertension</article-title><source>Clinical hypertension</source><year>2021</year><volume>27</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>26</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34911572</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR20" publication-type="journal">Sohn IS, Kim CJ, Yoo BS, Kim BJ, Choi JW, Kim DI, et al. Clinical impact of guideline-based practice and patients&#x02019; adherence in uncontrolled hypertension. Clinical hypertension. 2021;27(1):26.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34911572</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR21"><label>21.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR21" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Novello</surname><given-names>MF</given-names></name><name><surname>Rosa</surname><given-names>ML</given-names></name><name><surname>Ferreira</surname><given-names>RT</given-names></name><name><surname>Nunes</surname><given-names>IG</given-names></name><name><surname>Jorge</surname><given-names>AJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Correia</surname><given-names>DM</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Compliance with the prescription of antihypertensive medications and blood pressure control in primary care</article-title><source>Arq Bras Cardiol</source><year>2017</year><volume>108</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>135</fpage><lpage>142</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28327875</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR21" publication-type="journal">Novello MF, Rosa ML, Ferreira RT, Nunes IG, Jorge AJ, Correia DM, et al. Compliance with the prescription of antihypertensive medications and blood pressure control in primary care. Arq Bras Cardiol. 2017;108(2):135&#x02013;42.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28327875</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR22"><label>22.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR22" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lian</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Liang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Diabetes management in the real world and the impact of adherence to guideline recommendations</article-title><source>Curr Med Res Opin</source><year>2014</year><volume>30</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>2233</fpage><lpage>2240</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25105305</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR22" publication-type="journal">Lian J, Liang Y. Diabetes management in the real world and the impact of adherence to guideline recommendations. Curr Med Res Opin. 2014;30(11):2233&#x02013;40.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25105305</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR23"><label>23.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR23" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Saher</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Al-Worafi</surname><given-names>YM</given-names></name><name><surname>Iqbal</surname><given-names>MN</given-names></name><name><surname>Wahid</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Iqbal</surname><given-names>Q</given-names></name><name><surname>Khan</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Doctors&#x02019; adherence to guidelines recommendations and glycaemic control in diabetic patients in Quetta, Pakistan: findings from an observational study</article-title><source>Front Med</source><year>2022</year><volume>9</volume><fpage>978345</fpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR23" publication-type="journal">Saher T, Al-Worafi YM, Iqbal MN, Wahid A, Iqbal Q, Khan A, et al. Doctors&#x02019; adherence to guidelines recommendations and glycaemic control in diabetic patients in Quetta, Pakistan: findings from an observational study. Front Med. 2022;9:978345.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR24"><label>24.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR24" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lewing</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Sansgiry</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Abughosh</surname><given-names>SM</given-names></name><name><surname>Lal</surname><given-names>LS</given-names></name><name><surname>Essien</surname><given-names>EJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Sansgiry</surname><given-names>SS</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Effect of inadequate care on diabetes complications and healthcare resource utilization during management of type 2 diabetes in the United States</article-title><source>Postgrad Med</source><year>2022</year><volume>134</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>494</fpage><lpage>506</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35379062</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR24" publication-type="journal">Lewing B, Sansgiry S, Abughosh SM, Lal LS, Essien EJ, Sansgiry SS. Effect of inadequate care on diabetes complications and healthcare resource utilization during management of type 2 diabetes in the United States. Postgrad Med. 2022;134(5):494&#x02013;506.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35379062</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR25"><label>25.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR25" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Mehta</surname><given-names>RR</given-names></name><name><surname>Edwards</surname><given-names>AM</given-names></name><name><surname>Rajpathak</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Sharma</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Snow</surname><given-names>KJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Iglay</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Effects of conformance to type 2 diabetes guidelines on health care resource utilization, clinical outcomes, and cost: a retrospective claims analysis</article-title><source>J Clin Transl Endocrinol</source><year>2020</year><volume>19</volume><fpage>100215</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32095429</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR25" publication-type="journal">Mehta RR, Edwards AM, Rajpathak S, Sharma A, Snow KJ, Iglay K. Effects of conformance to type 2 diabetes guidelines on health care resource utilization, clinical outcomes, and cost: a retrospective claims analysis. J Clin Transl Endocrinol. 2020;19: 100215.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32095429</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR26"><label>26.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR26" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Chatterjee</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Majumder</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Excellent outcome of protocol-based treatment of motivated type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) patients: a real world follow-up for 11 years</article-title><source>Cureus</source><year>2020</year><volume>12</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>e11558</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33364086</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR26" publication-type="journal">Chatterjee S, Majumder A. Excellent outcome of protocol-based treatment of motivated type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) patients: a real world follow-up for 11 years. Cureus. 2020;12(11): e11558.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33364086</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR27"><label>27.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR27" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Gabler</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Picker</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Geier</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Ley</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Aberle</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Lehrke</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Guideline adherence and associated outcomes in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus patients with an incident cardiovascular comorbidity: an analysis based on a large German claims dataset</article-title><source>Diabetes therapy : research, treatment and education of diabetes and related disorders</source><year>2021</year><volume>12</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>1209</fpage><lpage>1226</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33710520</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR27" publication-type="journal">Gabler M, Picker N, Geier S, Ley L, Aberle J, Lehrke M, et al. Guideline adherence and associated outcomes in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus patients with an incident cardiovascular comorbidity: an analysis based on a large German claims dataset. Diabetes therapy&#x0202f;: research, treatment and education of diabetes and related disorders. 2021;12(4):1209&#x02013;26.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33710520</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR28"><label>28.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR28" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ahmad</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Hassan</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Tangiisuran</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Meng</surname><given-names>OL</given-names></name><name><surname>Abd Aziz</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Ahmad</surname><given-names>FU</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Guidelines adherence and hypertension control at a tertiary hospital in Malaysia</article-title><source>J Eval Clin Pract</source><year>2013</year><volume>19</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>798</fpage><lpage>804</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22583820</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR28" publication-type="journal">Ahmad N, Hassan Y, Tangiisuran B, Meng OL, Abd Aziz N, Ahmad FU, et al. Guidelines adherence and hypertension control at a tertiary hospital in Malaysia. J Eval Clin Pract. 2013;19(5):798&#x02013;804.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22583820</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR29"><label>29.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR29" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Teoh</surname><given-names>SH</given-names></name><name><surname>Razlina</surname><given-names>AR</given-names></name><name><surname>Norwati</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Siti Suhaila</surname><given-names>MY</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Patients&#x02019; blood pressure control and doctors&#x02019; adherence to hypertension clinical practice guideline in managing patients at health clinics in Kuala Muda district, Kedah</article-title><source>The Medical journal of Malaysia</source><year>2017</year><volume>72</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>18</fpage><lpage>25</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28255135</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR29" publication-type="journal">Teoh SH, Razlina AR, Norwati D, Siti Suhaila MY. Patients&#x02019; blood pressure control and doctors&#x02019; adherence to hypertension clinical practice guideline in managing patients at health clinics in Kuala Muda district, Kedah. The Medical journal of Malaysia. 2017;72(1):18&#x02013;25.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28255135</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR30"><label>30.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR30" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Posen</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Benken</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Kaluzna</surname><given-names>SD</given-names></name><name><surname>Sabouni</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Miglo</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Cai</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Poor guideline adherence in a real-world evaluation of hypertensive emergency management</article-title><source>Am J Emerg Med</source><year>2022</year><volume>51</volume><fpage>46</fpage><lpage>52</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34673475</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR30" publication-type="journal">Posen A, Benken S, Kaluzna SD, Sabouni M, Miglo J, Cai J, et al. Poor guideline adherence in a real-world evaluation of hypertensive emergency management. Am J Emerg Med. 2022;51:46&#x02013;52.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34673475</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR31"><label>31.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR31" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Hao</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Zheng</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Level of evidence supporting the Chinese cardiovascular disease clinical practice guidelines and its evolution in the past two decades</article-title><source>The Lancet regional health Western Pacific</source><year>2023</year><volume>36</volume><fpage>100773</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37547046</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR31" publication-type="journal">Li C, Wang C, Hao J, Zheng Y, Yang J, Wang W, et al. Level of evidence supporting the Chinese cardiovascular disease clinical practice guidelines and its evolution in the past two decades. The Lancet regional health Western Pacific. 2023;36:100773.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37547046</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR32"><label>32.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR32" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ament</surname><given-names>SMC</given-names></name><name><surname>de Groot</surname><given-names>JJA</given-names></name><name><surname>Maessen</surname><given-names>JMC</given-names></name><name><surname>Dirksen</surname><given-names>CD</given-names></name><name><surname>van der Weijden</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Kleijnen</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Sustainability of professionals&#x02019; adherence to clinical practice guidelines in medical care: a systematic review</article-title><source>BMJ Open</source><year>2015</year><volume>5</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>e008073</fpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR32" publication-type="journal">Ament SMC, de Groot JJA, Maessen JMC, Dirksen CD, van der Weijden T, Kleijnen J. Sustainability of professionals&#x02019; adherence to clinical practice guidelines in medical care: a systematic review. BMJ Open. 2015;5(12): e008073.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR33"><label>33.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR33" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Milchak</surname><given-names>JL</given-names></name><name><surname>Carter</surname><given-names>BL</given-names></name><name><surname>James</surname><given-names>PA</given-names></name><name><surname>Ardery</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Measuring adherence to practice guidelines for the management of hypertension: an evaluation of the literature</article-title><source>Hypertension</source><year>2004</year><volume>44</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>602</fpage><lpage>8</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15381676</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR33" publication-type="journal">Milchak JL, Carter BL, James PA, Ardery G. Measuring adherence to practice guidelines for the management of hypertension: an evaluation of the literature. Hypertension. 2004;44(5):602&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15381676</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR34"><label>34.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Vianini E, Pandey A, Rolland C, Ngubane N, Mueller-Wieland D, Gilbert J, Ahmad A. Systematic Literature Review of the Impact of Type 2 Diabetes and Heart Failure Guideline Adherence on Clinical and Economic Outcomes. Diabetes Ther. 2025;16(5):851&#x02013;64. 10.1007/s13300-025-01725-8. Epub 2025 Mar 27. PMID: 40146379; PMCID: PMC12006579.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR35"><label>35.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR35" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Oliart</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Rojas</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Capurro</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Are we ready for conformance checking in healthcare? Measuring adherence to clinical guidelines: a scoping systematic literature review</article-title><source>J Biomed Inform</source><year>2022</year><volume>130</volume><fpage>104076</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35525401</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR35" publication-type="journal">Oliart E, Rojas E, Capurro D. Are we ready for conformance checking in healthcare? Measuring adherence to clinical guidelines: a scoping systematic literature review. J Biomed Inform. 2022;130: 104076.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35525401</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR36"><label>36.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR36" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ciani</surname><given-names>O</given-names></name><name><surname>Manyara</surname><given-names>AM</given-names></name><name><surname>Davies</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Stewart</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Weir</surname><given-names>CJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Young</surname><given-names>AE</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>A framework for the definition and interpretation of the use of surrogate endpoints in interventional trials</article-title><source>eClinicalMedicine</source><year>2023</year><volume>65</volume><fpage>102283</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37877001</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR36" publication-type="journal">Ciani O, Manyara AM, Davies P, Stewart D, Weir CJ, Young AE, et al. A framework for the definition and interpretation of the use of surrogate endpoints in interventional trials. eClinicalMedicine. 2023;65:102283.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37877001</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR37"><label>37.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR37" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Renaux Torres</surname><given-names>MC</given-names></name><name><surname>Robinson</surname><given-names>PD</given-names></name><name><surname>Sung</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Dupuis</surname><given-names>LL</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Outcomes of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting guideline adherence in pediatric and adult patients: a systematic review</article-title><source>Supportive care in cancer : official journal of the Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer</source><year>2024</year><volume>32</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>455</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38913170</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR37" publication-type="journal">Renaux Torres MC, Robinson PD, Sung L, Dupuis LL. Outcomes of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting guideline adherence in pediatric and adult patients: a systematic review. Supportive care in cancer&#x0202f;: official journal of the Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer. 2024;32(7):455.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38913170</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR38"><label>38.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR38" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Guyatt</surname><given-names>GH</given-names></name><name><surname>Oxman</surname><given-names>AD</given-names></name><name><surname>Vist</surname><given-names>GE</given-names></name><name><surname>Kunz</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Falck-Ytter</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Alonso-Coello</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>GRADE: an emerging consensus on rating quality of evidence and strength of recommendations</article-title><source>BMJ (Clinical research ed)</source><year>2008</year><volume>336</volume><issue>7650</issue><fpage>924</fpage><lpage>926</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR38" publication-type="journal">Guyatt GH, Oxman AD, Vist GE, Kunz R, Falck-Ytter Y, Alonso-Coello P, et al. GRADE: an emerging consensus on rating quality of evidence and strength of recommendations. BMJ (Clinical research ed). 2008;336(7650):924&#x02013;6.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR39"><label>39.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR39" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Andrews</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Guyatt</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Oxman</surname><given-names>AD</given-names></name><name><surname>Alderson</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Dahm</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Falck-Ytter</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>GRADE guidelines: 14. Going from evidence to recommendations: the significance and presentation of recommendations</article-title><source>Journal of clinical epidemiology.</source><year>2013</year><volume>66</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>719</fpage><lpage>725</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23312392</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR39" publication-type="journal">Andrews J, Guyatt G, Oxman AD, Alderson P, Dahm P, Falck-Ytter Y, et al. GRADE guidelines: 14. Going from evidence to recommendations: the significance and presentation of recommendations. Journal of clinical epidemiology. 2013;66(7):719&#x02013;25.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23312392</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR40"><label>40.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Andrews JC, Sch&#x000fc;nemann HJ, Oxman AD, Pottie K, Meerpohl JJ, Coello PA, et al. GRADE guidelines: 15. Going from evidence to recommendation-determinants of a recommendation&#x02019;s direction and strength. J Clin Epidemiol. 2013;66(7):726&#x02013;35.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR41"><label>41.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR41" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Brouwers</surname><given-names>MC</given-names></name><name><surname>Kho</surname><given-names>ME</given-names></name><name><surname>Browman</surname><given-names>GP</given-names></name><name><surname>Burgers</surname><given-names>JS</given-names></name><name><surname>Cluzeau</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Feder</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>AGREE II: advancing guideline development, reporting and evaluation in health care</article-title><source>CMAJ</source><year>2010</year><volume>182</volume><issue>18</issue><fpage>E839</fpage><lpage>42</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20603348</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR41" publication-type="journal">Brouwers MC, Kho ME, Browman GP, Burgers JS, Cluzeau F, Feder G, et al. AGREE II: advancing guideline development, reporting and evaluation in health care. CMAJ. 2010;182(18):E839-42.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20603348</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR42"><label>42.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR42" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Maru&#x00161;i&#x00107;</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Qaseem</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Meerpohl</surname><given-names>JJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Flottorp</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>A reporting tool for practice guidelines in health care: the RIGHT statement</article-title><source>Ann Intern Med</source><year>2016</year><volume>166</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>128</fpage><lpage>132</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27893062</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR42" publication-type="journal">Chen Y, Yang K, Maru&#x00161;i&#x00107; A, Qaseem A, Meerpohl JJ, Flottorp S, et al. A reporting tool for practice guidelines in health care: the RIGHT statement. Ann Intern Med. 2016;166(2):128&#x02013;32.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27893062</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR43"><label>43.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR43" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Hoffmann</surname><given-names>TC</given-names></name><name><surname>Glasziou</surname><given-names>PP</given-names></name><name><surname>Boutron</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Milne</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Perera</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Moher</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Better reporting of interventions: template for intervention description and replication (TIDieR) checklist and guide</article-title><source>BMJ (Clinical research ed)</source><year>2014</year><volume>348</volume><fpage>g1687</fpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR43" publication-type="journal">Hoffmann TC, Glasziou PP, Boutron I, Milne R, Perera R, Moher D, et al. Better reporting of interventions: template for intervention description and replication (TIDieR) checklist and guide. BMJ (Clinical research ed). 2014;348:g1687.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR44"><label>44.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR44" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Christensen</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Ciani</surname><given-names>O</given-names></name><name><surname>Manyara</surname><given-names>AM</given-names></name><name><surname>Taylor</surname><given-names>RS</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Surrogate endpoints: a key concept in clinical epidemiology</article-title><source>J Clin Epidemiol</source><year>2024</year><volume>167</volume><fpage>111242</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38142762</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR44" publication-type="journal">Christensen R, Ciani O, Manyara AM, Taylor RS. Surrogate endpoints: a key concept in clinical epidemiology. J Clin Epidemiol. 2024;167:111242.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38142762</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR45"><label>45.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR45" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Hern&#x000e1;n</surname><given-names>MA</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Leaf</surname><given-names>DE</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Target trial emulation: a framework for causal inference from observational data</article-title><source>JAMA</source><year>2022</year><volume>328</volume><issue>24</issue><fpage>2446</fpage><lpage>2447</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36508210</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR45" publication-type="journal">Hern&#x000e1;n MA, Wang W, Leaf DE. Target trial emulation: a framework for causal inference from observational data. JAMA. 2022;328(24):2446&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36508210</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR46"><label>46.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR46" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Hern&#x000e1;n</surname><given-names>MA</given-names></name><name><surname>Sauer</surname><given-names>BC</given-names></name><name><surname>Hern&#x000e1;ndez-D&#x000ed;az</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Platt</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Shrier</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Specifying a target trial prevents immortal time bias and other self-inflicted injuries in observational analyses</article-title><source>J Clin Epidemiol</source><year>2016</year><volume>79</volume><fpage>70</fpage><lpage>75</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27237061</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR46" publication-type="journal">Hern&#x000e1;n MA, Sauer BC, Hern&#x000e1;ndez-D&#x000ed;az S, Platt R, Shrier I. Specifying a target trial prevents immortal time bias and other self-inflicted injuries in observational analyses. J Clin Epidemiol. 2016;79:70&#x02013;5.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27237061</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR47"><label>47.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Yazbeck B, Yaacoub S, Boutron I. Datasets (design and methods for assessing the effect of adherence to clinical practice guidelines on patients&#x02019; health outcomes: a scoping review). Open Science Framework (OSF); 2025. Available from: <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://osf.io/r2ke8">https://osf.io/r2ke8</ext-link>. Cited 2025. </mixed-citation></ref></ref-list></back></article>