# Efficiency of remote monitoring and guidance in blood pressure management: a randomized controlled trial : The role of remote monitoring in improving hypertension management.

<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//NLM//DTD JATS (Z39.96) Journal Archiving and Interchange DTD with MathML3 v1.3 20210610//EN" "JATS-archivearticle1-3-mathml3.dtd"> 
<article xmlns:ali="http://www.niso.org/schemas/ali/1.0/" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" article-type="research-article" dtd-version="1.3"><?properties open_access?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierValue -//Springer-Verlag//DTD A++ V2.4//EN?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierType public?><?SourceDTD.DTDName A++V2.4.dtd?><?SourceDTD.Version 2.4?><?ConverterInfo.XSLTName springer2nlmx2.xsl?><?ConverterInfo.Version 1?><processing-meta base-tagset="archiving" mathml-version="3.0" table-model="xhtml" tagset-family="jats"><restricted-by>pmc</restricted-by></processing-meta><front><journal-meta><journal-id journal-id-type="nlm-ta">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-id journal-id-type="iso-abbrev">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-title-group><journal-title>BMC Medicine</journal-title></journal-title-group><issn pub-type="epub">1741-7015</issn><publisher><publisher-name>BioMed Central</publisher-name><publisher-loc>London</publisher-loc></publisher></journal-meta>
<article-meta><article-id pub-id-type="pmcid">12326676</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="pmid">40764960</article-id>
<article-id pub-id-type="publisher-id">4278</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12916-025-04278-6</article-id><article-categories><subj-group subj-group-type="heading"><subject>Research</subject></subj-group></article-categories><title-group><article-title>Efficiency of remote monitoring and guidance in blood pressure management: a randomized controlled trial</article-title><subtitle>The role of remote monitoring in improving hypertension management</subtitle></title-group><contrib-group><contrib contrib-type="author" equal-contrib="yes"><name><surname>Teng</surname><given-names>Tian-qi</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" equal-contrib="yes"><name><surname>Sun</surname><given-names>Gui-xia</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Yu</surname><given-names>Zhi-yi</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>Zi-shan</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Tao</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff4">4</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>Qiong</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff4">4</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Qin</surname><given-names>Ran-ran</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff4">4</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Meng-meng</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>Rui</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>Jia-Chao</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Ning</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Song</surname><given-names>Bing-xue</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>Xin</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Ying-ying</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Yu</surname><given-names>Hai-Chu</given-names></name><address><email>haichuyu@163.com</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff5">5</xref></contrib><aff id="Aff1"><label>1</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/026e9yy16</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.412521.1</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 1769 1119</institution-id><institution>Department of Cardiology, </institution><institution>The Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University, </institution></institution-wrap>Qingdao, Shandong China </aff><aff id="Aff2"><label>2</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/026e9yy16</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.412521.1</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 1769 1119</institution-id><institution>The Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University, </institution></institution-wrap>Qingdao, Shandong China </aff><aff id="Aff3"><label>3</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/021cj6z65</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.410645.2</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 0455 0905</institution-id><institution>The Affiliated Haici Hospital of Qingdao University, Qingdao Haici Hospital, </institution></institution-wrap>Qingdao, Shandong China </aff><aff id="Aff4"><label>4</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/021cj6z65</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.410645.2</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 0455 0905</institution-id><institution>The Affiliated Cardiovascular Hospital of Qingdao University, </institution></institution-wrap>Qingdao, Shandong China </aff><aff id="Aff5"><label>5</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/021cj6z65</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.410645.2</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 0455 0905</institution-id><institution>Institute of Cardiovascular Disease, </institution><institution>Qingdao University, </institution></institution-wrap>Qingdao, Shandong 266000 China </aff></contrib-group><pub-date pub-type="epub"><day>5</day><month>8</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="pmc-release"><day>5</day><month>8</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="collection"><year>2025</year></pub-date><volume>23</volume><elocation-id>459</elocation-id><history><date date-type="received"><day>11</day><month>12</month><year>2024</year></date><date date-type="accepted"><day>15</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></date></history><permissions><copyright-statement>&#x000a9; The Author(s) 2025</copyright-statement><copyright-year>2025</copyright-year><license><ali:license_ref specific-use="textmining" content-type="ccbyncndlicense">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ali:license_ref><license-p><bold>Open Access</bold> This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed material. You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/">http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ext-link>.</license-p></license></permissions><abstract id="Abs1"><sec><title>Background</title><p id="Par1">Regular monitoring of blood pressure (BP) is essential for managing hypertension. The long-term effectiveness of remote monitoring in BP control requires further validation. Although self-monitoring has some benefits, its overall effectiveness remains inconclusive. In this study, we aimed to compare whether remote monitoring and self-monitoring differ from usual care in terms of their effects on BP reduction in patients with hypertension.</p></sec><sec><title>Methods</title><p id="Par2">This multicentre randomised controlled trial enrolled participants diagnosed with primary hypertension in Qingdao, China, from December 2020 to December 2021. Patients were randomly assigned to one of the following three groups: remote monitoring, self-monitoring, or usual care. All groups underwent scheduled outpatient follow-up visits every 3&#x000a0;months throughout the 24-month study period. The primary outcome was the adjusted mean difference in systolic BP, which was used to evaluate the effectiveness of remote monitoring and self-monitoring compared to usual care.</p></sec><sec><title>Results</title><p id="Par3">A total of 1006 participants were analysed: 332 in the usual care group, 337 in the self-monitoring group, and 337 in the remote group. After 24&#x000a0;months, BP was significantly reduced in all the groups, particularly in the remote group with suboptimal baseline BP, where systolic and diastolic BP decreased by 17.7&#x000a0;mm Hg and 10.2&#x000a0;mm Hg, respectively. Compared to the usual care group, the adjusted mean difference in systolic BP for the remote group was -2.7 (-4.45, -0.96), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.002, while the self-monitoring group showed no significant difference. No significant differences in diastolic BP were observed between either group and the usual care group. Attainment rates of target BP increased rapidly in the first 3&#x000a0;months, and continued to rise only in the remote group, reaching 69.65%. The remote group had a higher proportion of calcium channel blockers, diuretics, and combination therapy than the usual care and self-monitoring groups.</p></sec><sec><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par4">Remote monitoring and guidance enhanced the efficiency of BP management, whereas self-monitoring alone proved to be ineffective.</p></sec><sec><title>Trial registration</title><p id="Par5">ClincialTrials.gov Identifier: NCT04690478.</p></sec><sec><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12916-025-04278-6.</p></sec></abstract><kwd-group xml:lang="en"><title>Keywords</title><kwd>Hypertension</kwd><kwd>Blood pressure management</kwd><kwd>Remote monitoring</kwd><kwd>Self-monitoring</kwd><kwd>Telemedicine</kwd></kwd-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>Hai-Chu Yu</institution></funding-source><award-id>20-3-4-54-nsh</award-id></award-group></funding-group><custom-meta-group><custom-meta><meta-name>issue-copyright-statement</meta-name><meta-value>&#x000a9; BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2025</meta-value></custom-meta></custom-meta-group></article-meta></front><body><sec id="Sec1"><title>Background</title><p id="Par15">Hypertension is a cardiovascular syndrome characterised by elevated systemic arterial pressure, which damages the structure and function of vital organs, including the heart, brain, and kidneys, ultimately leading to their failure [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>]. Hypertension is a leading risk factor for cardiovascular disease and mortality worldwide [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>]. According to a 2019 report, hypertension is the leading cause of death among women and the second leading cause among men, and is responsible for approximately 11 million deaths globally [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>]. Despite effective treatments, hypertension management and control remain inadequate, with poor patient compliance and clinical inertia being common problems [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>]. Digital health technologies such as remote monitoring, wearables, and mobile health platforms are increasingly becoming important tools in hypertension management [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>].</p><p id="Par16">Medical workers often monitor patients' blood pressure (BP) in the following three ways. 1) Usual care primarily involves repeated office BP (OBP) measurements, which remain the most common approach for long-term management of hypertension [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>]. However, continuous monitoring of a patient&#x02019;s BP is not feasible. Additionally, the clinical setting may induce tension and anxiety in patients, potentially leading to &#x02018;white coat hypertension&#x02019; (WCH) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>]. This ultimately leads to misdiagnosis and overtreatment. The European Society of Hypertension guidelines recommend that patients with suspected WCH undergo home or ambulatory BP monitoring to confirm the diagnosis [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>]. 2) Self-monitoring can reflect the BP level in patients'daily lives better than OBP, but measurement errors can occur in different brands and models of BP monitors. Some patients may be unable to correctly operate the BP monitor or understand the readings [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>]. However, studies have indicated that isolated self-monitoring in itself did not improve BP control but was effective when combined with other interventions [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>]. 3) Remote monitoring enables patients to track their BP at home in a regular and quantitative manner. After each measurement, BP data is automatically uploaded, and in cases of abnormal BP, an immediate telephone follow-up is conducted to check for hypertension-related symptoms. Based on this consultation, the patient is advised to promptly seek medical care or adjust their medications.</p><p id="Par17">Each of the three methods has advantages and limitations. Current perspectives suggest that while self-monitoring of BP may be used as a diagnostic option for hypertension, it is particularly suitable for long-term management of patients with WCH [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>]. Remote BP monitoring avoids the shortcomings of other monitoring methods and has significant advantages in enhancing doctor-patient communication and strengthening patient awareness. The TASMINH4 trial demonstrated that over a 12-month period, both remote and self-monitoring of BP were significantly more effective in reducing systolic BP than usual care treatments, with remote monitoring having the greatest effect. However, these differences were not statistically significant with respect to controlling diastolic BP [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>]. Notably, although the effectiveness of self-monitoring in BP management is somewhat recognised, its actual impact remains unconfirmed [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>]. Therefore, in this study, we aimed to identify whether remote monitoring and self-monitoring differ from usual care with respect to BP reduction, over an extended follow-up period, to provide robust data for future clinical decisions. The significance of this study is further emphasised by the fact that similar studies focusing on the Chinese population are lacking.</p></sec><sec id="Sec2"><title>Methods</title><p id="Par18">For this multicentre prospective study, we enrolled participants from December 2020 to December 2021 and followed them up for over 24&#x000a0;months. Patients with primary hypertension who were treated in the cardiology departments of various hospitals in Qingdao, including The Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University, The Affiliated Cardiovascular Hospital of Qingdao University, Qingdao Beixin Minsheng Hospital, Qingdao Beitai Hospital, and Qingdao Ankang Hospital were included. This was an open-label randomised controlled trial with automated outcome assessments. The effectiveness of remote BP monitoring was compared with usual care and self-monitoring in patients with hypertension. Detailed experimental methods are provided in Additional file <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">1</xref>.</p><sec id="Sec3"><title>Population</title><p id="Par19">Participants were selected from the outpatient clinics of the five hospitals involved in this study. All potential participants underwent the initial screening process, including a review of general information, medical history, physical examination, and laboratory tests. After assessment by the medical team, patients who met the inclusion criteria were included in the study.</p><p id="Par20">The following inclusion criteria were considered: participants aged 18&#x02013;75&#x000a0;years and a diagnosis of primary hypertension [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>]. Participants were required to own a smartphone, be proficient in using smart devices, and be permanent residents; they had to provide voluntary consent to participate in the study, including agreeing to follow-up visits. Exclusion criteria included the following: systolic BP&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;180&#x000a0;mmHg or diastolic BP&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;110&#x000a0;mmHg; pregnancy or breastfeeding; arrhythmias (such as atrial fibrillation or atrioventricular block) that could interfere with the operation of electronic BP monitors; severe diabetes with glycosylated haemoglobin levels&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;11%; acute cardiovascular events within the past 3&#x000a0;months; severe valvular heart disease, cardiomyopathy, or chronic heart failure; chronic kidney disease stages 4 or 5; terminal diseases, precluding follow-up due to limited life expectancy; and other factors as detailed in supplementary materials.</p><p id="Par21">All participants signed informed consent forms, and the study was approved by the Ethics Committee of the Qingdao University Affiliated Cardiovascular Hospital (approval number: 2019&#x02013;01-01).</p></sec><sec id="Sec4"><title>Procedure</title><p id="Par22">This study included three groups: remote care, self-monitoring, and usual care. Neither the participants nor the investigators were blinded to group allocation. The participants were assessed for eligibility at the clinic, provided informed consent, and underwent baseline clinical data collection and laboratory tests. The researchers used an automatic lottery program uploaded to a cloud platform. After entering patients'basic information, the program assigned them to groups in a 1:1:1 ratio using simple randomisation. The system ensured that neither the researchers nor the participants could alter or predict the allocation. All participants received training upon enrolment and formally confirmed the scheduled time and location of the first follow-up visit in writing. The time for subsequent follow-up visits were confirmed at the end of each visit, with a follow-up interval of 3&#x000a0;months, and continued until 24&#x000a0;months. During each outpatient visit, the BP was measured with the assistance of a dedicated research nurse. The measurement method is detailed in Additional file <xref rid="MOESM2" ref-type="media">2</xref>. Experienced senior cardiologists performed consultations and BP assessments at outpatient clinics, adjusted medications, and provided health education. The research staff assisted in recording key indicators such as office BP, lifestyle changes, and medication use through structured questionnaires.</p></sec><sec id="Sec5"><title>Remote group</title><p id="Par23">Each participant in the remote group was provided with an automatic upper-arm oscillometric BP monitor (Maibobo, RBP-9801, Shenzhen, China) that uploaded data to a cloud platform, along with training on proper use of the monitor. Participants in the remote-monitoring group received appropriately sized cuffs and were instructed on their correct use to ensure accurate measurements. Participants were required to measure their blood pressure at home three times each morning (within 1&#x000a0;h of waking, on an empty stomach, before taking medication, and after urinating), with 1-min interval between readings. During the first 3&#x000a0;months, they measured their blood pressure daily for 7 consecutive days (or at least three times per week if unable to complete daily measurements). During follow-up, patients with stable and well-controlled BP were asked to undergo measurements three fixed days per week (or at least once if they were unable to complete the required frequency). Patients with unstable or uncontrolled BP were advised to maintain daily measurements (or at least three times per week if daily measurements were not possible). Well-controlled BP was defined as having BP within the target range in at least three of the last five home-based self-monitored measurements, as determined by a clinic doctor during follow-up [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>]. After completing the measurements, the data were automatically uploaded. Patients were instructed to download the public version of the &#x0201c;Medical Home&#x0201d; app on their smartphones, and were guided regarding its usage. The &#x0201c;cloud platform&#x0201d; automatically generated a BP trend graph based on patients'daily morning measurements.</p><p id="Par24">Intermediate-level physicians in the research team reviewed BP data of the participants in the remote-monitoring group daily between 8:00 AM and 12:00 PM. If a patient's systolic BP was&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;135&#x000a0;mm Hg and/or diastolic BP was&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;85&#x000a0;mm Hg for two consecutive readings, an orange indicator was triggered. If a patient's systolic BP reached&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;175&#x000a0;mm Hg and/or diastolic BP&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;105&#x000a0;mm Hg in a single reading, a red indicator was displayed. In both cases, the physician immediately contacted the patient to enquire regarding the symptoms and assess their condition, with higher priority given to those with the red indicator. The physician provided remote guidance, which included lifestyle modifications, medication adjustments, recommendations for follow-up BP monitoring, or advice for clinic visits. Specific interventions were determined based on the condition of each patient. In addition, participants could reach out to the research team at any time for assistance with device use, follow-up scheduling, or health consultations, particularly during poor BP control or when they felt unwell. However, contacting a physician was at the discretion of the patient.</p><p id="Par25">Researchers provided health education to patients via the"Medical Home" app, which included: (1) publishing two articles weekly on hypertension management covering diet, lifestyle, drug side effects, and coping strategies; (2) hosting biweekly hypertension lectures and promptly notifying the patients. After the patients watched, their participation was automatically recorded, helping researchers set reminders for those who missed sessions; (3) for participants whose BP remained uncontrolled after 1&#x000a0;month of management, research staff initiated remote expert support via the app&#x02019;s expert studio function, which was conducted by senior internal medicine physicians to provide timely and individualised guidance. These senior physicians conducted personalised assessments through video calls or phone consultations, asked patients regarding their symptoms, evaluated their BP, identified the cause of poor control, and provided tailored strategies. These strategies included psychological counselling, medication adjustments, dietary advice, physical activity recommendations, and sleep management. The physician also determined whether further in-person consultations were required (Additional file <xref rid="MOESM2" ref-type="media">2</xref>: Fig. S1).</p></sec><sec id="Sec6"><title>Self-monitoring group</title><p id="Par26">The participants in the self-monitoring group used the same BP monitor as those in the remote group and followed the same measurement methods and frequencies. The results were recorded in a logbook for assessment and treatment during follow-up visits; however, the monitor lacked remote functionality. The follow-up frequency and methods were consistent with those of the remote-monitoring group, with participants receiving necessary medical guidance during outpatient visits.</p></sec><sec id="Sec7"><title>Usual care group</title><p id="Par27">Patients in the usual care group were instructed to manage their BP according to their habits or local community practices with no additional interventions implemented. In addition to the absence of home BP blood pressure monitoring data for physician evaluation, the follow-up procedures were identical to those in the other two groups.</p></sec><sec id="Sec8"><title>BP targets and measurements</title><p id="Par28">Blood pressure targets were defined as&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;140/80&#x000a0;mmHg for individuals with diabetes and&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;140/90&#x000a0;mmHg for others based on office measurements, and&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;135/75&#x000a0;mmHg and&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;135/85&#x000a0;mmHg respectively for home self-monitoring [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>]. Failure to meet these criteria was classified as uncontrolled BP. The method for OBP measurement is detailed in Supplementary Materials.</p></sec><sec id="Sec9"><title>Outcome</title><p id="Par29">The primary outcome was office-measured systolic BP at 24&#x000a0;months, which served as the key indicator for assessing treatment effects and BP control. Secondary outcomes included BP levels, BP reduction, and changes in target BP attainment rate at 6, 12, and 24&#x000a0;months. Additionally, changes in parameters such as smoking, alcohol consumption, sleep duration, anxiety, salt intake, body mass index (BMI), and medication use at 24&#x000a0;months were assessed.</p></sec><sec id="Sec10"><title>Statistical analysis</title><p id="Par30">To detect a 5&#x000a0;mm Hg systolic BP difference between groups with 90% power and an adjusted alpha of 0.017 for a two-by-two comparison of the three groups, 298 cases per group were needed, as indicated by the results of the TASMINH-4 study [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>]. This calculation was based on a common standard deviation of 17&#x000a0;mm Hg and a three-factor pairwise comparison. Considering a 15% dropout rate, 350 participants were required in each group, resulting in a total sample size of 1050 participants.</p><p id="Par31">Statistical analysis was performed using SPSS software (version 22.0). The analyses were performed on an intention-to-treat basis. Continuous variables are expressed as mean&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;standard deviation (x&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;s), and one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used for comparisons between groups. Count data are expressed as cases (%), and chi-square or Fisher's exact test was used for comparisons among groups. For non-continuous missing data, nearest neighbor interpolation was used. To better compare the differences in the antihypertensive effects among the three groups, a linear mixed-effects model was used. The model was adjusted for baseline BP, healthcare institutions, and target BP levels to accurately assess treatment effects and control for individual differences. Subgroup analyses were conducted to assess whether treatment effects differed according to predefined baseline characteristics, including sex, age, baseline systolic blood pressure (SBP), body mass index (BMI), diabetes status, anxiety, and sleep duration. There was a statistically significant difference (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05) between the two groups. In this study, we controlled for the risk of Type I error from multiple comparisons using Bonferroni correction, applying <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.0167 as the significance level for between-group comparisons.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec11"><title>Results</title><sec id="Sec12"><title>Description of study participants</title><p id="Par32">As shown in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>, 1,258 individuals met the inclusion criteria and underwent further screening. Of these, 32 withdrew their consent and 220 were excluded for various reasons. The main reasons for exclusion (based on 1,258 participants) were as follows: 78 individuals (6.2%) had systolic BP&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;180&#x000a0;mmHg or diastolic BP&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;110&#x000a0;mmHg, 42 (3.3%) had atrial fibrillation, 33 (2.6%) had chronic heart failure, 25 (2.0%) had chronic kidney disease stages 4&#x02013;5, and 15 (1.2%) had spouses or relatives already enrolled in the study.<fig id="Fig1"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;1</label><caption><p>Flowchart of participant recruitment</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4278_Fig1_HTML" id="MO1"/></fig></p><p id="Par33">Ultimately, 1,006 participants were randomised: 332 to the usual care group, 337 to the self-monitoring group, and 337 to the remote group. Among all the participants, 668 (66.4%) had uncontrolled baseline BP with the following distribution across the groups: 217 (65.4%) in the usual care group, 229 (68%) in the self-monitoring group, and 222 (65.9%) in the remote care group. During the follow-up period, 35, 29, and 22 participants were lost to follow-up in the usual care, self-monitoring, and remote groups, respectively. Additionally, although some individuals completed the follow-up visits, several participants missed visits due to transportation issues, health status, and lack of telephone contact; the number of visits were 57 in the usual care group, 87 in the self-monitoring group, and 165 in the remote group. The groups were well matched, with a mean age of 61.02&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;9.02&#x000a0;years, a slightly higher proportion of males (464, 51.21%), and a mean BP of 144.56/86.07&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;15.86/10.41&#x000a0;mm Hg (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref>).
<table-wrap id="Tab1"><label>Table 1</label><caption><p>Baseline characteristics</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left">Characteristic</th><th align="left">Total (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;1006)</th><th align="left">Usual care group (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;332)</th><th align="left">Self-monitoring group (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;337)</th><th align="left">Remote group (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;337)</th><th align="left"><italic>P</italic> value</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">Age, years</td><td align="left">61.02&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;9.02</td><td align="left">61.01&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.97</td><td align="left">60.92&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;9.18</td><td align="left">61.11&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.95</td><td char="." align="char">0.966</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Systolic BP, mm Hg</td><td align="left">144.56&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;15.86</td><td align="left">143.93&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;15.56</td><td align="left">145.45&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;15.45</td><td align="left">144.28&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;16.53</td><td char="." align="char">0.47</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Diastolic BP, mm Hg</td><td align="left">86.07&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;10.41</td><td align="left">85.96&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;10.48</td><td align="left">86.63&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;10.24</td><td align="left">85.63&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;10.52</td><td char="." align="char">0.482</td></tr><tr><td align="left">High, cm</td><td align="left">167.11&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.10</td><td align="left">167.25&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.25</td><td align="left">167.07&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.12</td><td align="left">167.01&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;7.90</td><td char="." align="char">0.933</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Weight, kg</td><td align="left">73.53&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.98</td><td align="left">73.88&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.64</td><td align="left">73.70&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.51</td><td align="left">73.03&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;12.73</td><td char="." align="char">0.661</td></tr><tr><td align="left">BMI, kg/m<sup>2</sup></td><td align="left">26.24&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;3.28</td><td align="left">26.32&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;3.01</td><td align="left">26.32&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;3.12</td><td align="left">26.09&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;3.65</td><td char="." align="char">0.622</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Waist circumference, cm</td><td align="left">92.42&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;10.06</td><td align="left">92.77&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;9.44</td><td align="left">93.12&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;10.11</td><td align="left">91.42&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;20.52</td><td char="." align="char">0.09</td></tr><tr><td align="left">White blood cell,&#x02009;&#x000d7;&#x02009;10<sup>9</sup>/L</td><td align="left">6.22&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.40</td><td align="left">6.22&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.40</td><td align="left">6.47&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.57</td><td align="left">6.28&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.65</td><td char="." align="char">0.23</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Red blood cell,&#x02009;&#x000d7;&#x02009;10<sup>9</sup>/L</td><td align="left">4.69&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.51</td><td align="left">4.73&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.43</td><td align="left">4.67&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.59</td><td align="left">4.67&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.47</td><td char="." align="char">0.429</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Hemoglobin, g/L</td><td align="left">142.67&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;14.51</td><td align="left">143.58&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;15.83</td><td align="left">141.74&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;14.09</td><td align="left">142.79&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;13.69</td><td char="." align="char">0.426</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Platelet,&#x02009;&#x000d7;&#x02009;10<sup>9</sup>/L</td><td align="left">227.20&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;56.67</td><td align="left">225.69&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;49.04</td><td align="left">229.59&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;54.13</td><td align="left">226.22&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;55.36</td><td char="." align="char">0.741</td></tr><tr><td align="left">ALT, U/L</td><td align="left">23.19&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;16.60</td><td align="left">21.78&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.36</td><td align="left">23.84&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;14.85</td><td align="left">23.86&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;21.41</td><td char="." align="char">0.313</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Creatinine, mmol/L</td><td align="left">82.41&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;21.18</td><td align="left">83.02&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;20.14</td><td align="left">82.55&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;19.91</td><td align="left">81.73&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;23.21</td><td char="." align="char">0.799</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Total cholesterol, mmol/L</td><td align="left">5.09&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.15</td><td align="left">5.06&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.16</td><td align="left">5.04&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.15</td><td align="left">5.16&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.13</td><td char="." align="char">0.455</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Triglyceride, mmol/L</td><td align="left">1.88&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.70</td><td align="left">1.88&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.81</td><td align="left">1.80&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.31</td><td align="left">1.94&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.91</td><td char="." align="char">0.679</td></tr><tr><td align="left">HDL-C, mmol/L</td><td align="left">1.41&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.46</td><td align="left">1.39&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.52</td><td align="left">1.40&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.44</td><td align="left">1.45&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.41</td><td char="." align="char">0.289</td></tr><tr><td align="left">LDL-C, mmol/L</td><td align="left">3.09&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.92</td><td align="left">2.99&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.90</td><td align="left">3.14&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.90</td><td align="left">3.13&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.94</td><td char="." align="char">0.162</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Glucose, mmol/L</td><td align="left">6.33&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;2.37</td><td align="left">6.52&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;3.15</td><td align="left">6.31&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;2.18</td><td align="left">6.19&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.60</td><td char="." align="char">0.329</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Urine acid, &#x003bc;mol/L</td><td align="left">349.81&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;110.73</td><td align="left">340.92&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;89.68</td><td align="left">353.35&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;126.92</td><td align="left">355.12&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;112.90</td><td char="." align="char">0.367</td></tr><tr><td align="left">BP control rate, %</td><td align="left">338(33.6)</td><td align="left">115(34.6)</td><td align="left">108(32%)</td><td align="left">115(34.1)</td><td char="." align="char">0.753</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Male, %</td><td align="left">521(51.8)</td><td align="left">175(52.7)</td><td align="left">172(51)</td><td align="left">174(51.6)</td><td char="." align="char">0.908</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Diabetes mellitus, %</td><td align="left">198(19.7)</td><td align="left">72(21.7)</td><td align="left">66(19.6)</td><td align="left">60(17.8)</td><td char="." align="char">0.45</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Smoking, %</td><td align="left">166(16.5)</td><td align="left">53(16)</td><td align="left">57(16.9)</td><td align="left">56(14.6)</td><td char="." align="char">0.944</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Drinking, %</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td char="." align="char">0.622</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Never</td><td align="left">722(71.8)</td><td align="left">238(71.7)</td><td align="left">247(73.3)</td><td align="left">237(70.3)</td><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Intermittent</td><td align="left">203(20.2)</td><td align="left">72(21.7)</td><td align="left">61(18.1)</td><td align="left">70(20.8)</td><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Daily</td><td align="left">81(8.1)</td><td align="left">22(6.6)</td><td align="left">29(8.6)</td><td align="left">30(8.9)</td><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Salt intake, %</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td char="." align="char">&#x000a0;0.757</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x0003c;&#x02009;6&#x000a0;g</td><td align="left">415(41.3)</td><td align="left">139(41.9)</td><td align="left">132(39.2)</td><td align="left">144(42.7)</td><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;6-12&#x000a0;g</td><td align="left">464(46.1)</td><td align="left">154(46.4)</td><td align="left">163(48.4)</td><td align="left">147(43.6)</td><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x0003e;&#x02009;12&#x000a0;g</td><td align="left">127(12.6)</td><td align="left">39(11.7)</td><td align="left">42(12.5)</td><td align="left">46(13.6)</td><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Hours of sleep, %</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td char="." align="char">&#x000a0;0.24</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x0003c;&#x02009;4&#x000a0;h</td><td align="left">170(16.9)</td><td align="left">48(14.5)</td><td align="left">60(17.8)</td><td align="left">62(18.4)</td><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;4&#x02013;8&#x000a0;h</td><td align="left">744(74)</td><td align="left">257(77.4)</td><td align="left">248(73.6)</td><td align="left">236(70)</td><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x0003e;&#x02009;8&#x000a0;h</td><td align="left">95(9.4)</td><td align="left">27(8.1)</td><td align="left">29(8.6)</td><td align="left">39(11.6)</td><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Anxiety, %</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td char="." align="char">&#x000a0;0.914</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Never </td><td align="left">212(62.9)</td><td align="left">618(61.4) </td><td align="left">200(60.2) </td><td align="left">206(6.11) </td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Sometimes</td><td align="left">290(28.8)</td><td align="left">99(29.8)</td><td align="left">96(28.5)</td><td align="left">95(28.2)</td><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Often</td><td align="left">98(9.7)</td><td align="left">33(9.9)</td><td align="left">35(10.4)</td><td align="left">30(8.9)</td><td char="." align="char"/></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p><italic>BP</italic> Blood pressure, <italic>BMI</italic> Body mass index, <italic>ALT</italic> Alanine aminotransferase, <italic>HDL-C</italic> High-density lipoprotein cholesterol, <italic>LDL-C</italic> Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p></sec><sec id="Sec13"><title>Primary outcome: differences in systolic and diastolic BP across interventions</title><p id="Par34">BP decreased significantly during the follow-up period in all groups, particularly in the remote group. Specifically, mean BP in the remote group was 134.4/79.05&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.25/8.15&#x000a0;mm Hg at 24&#x000a0;months of follow-up, with mean reductions of 9.88&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;16.95&#x000a0;mm Hg and 6.58&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;9.66&#x000a0;mm Hg in systolic and diastolic BP, respectively. For patients with substandard baseline BP, the mean reductions in systolic and diastolic BPs in the remote group were 17.70&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;3.79&#x000a0;mm Hg and 10.20&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.41&#x000a0;mm Hg, respectively. Adjusted mean differences were used to compare between-group reductions among the three groups. In all enrolled patients, the mean systolic BP in the remote group was significantly lower than that in the usual care group at 6&#x000a0;months (135.10&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;13.53 vs. 137.34&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;13.70&#x000a0;mm Hg), with an adjusted mean difference of &#x02212;2.38&#x000a0;mm Hg (95% confidence interval (CI): &#x02212;4.31, &#x02212;0.45), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.016. By 24&#x000a0;months, the mean systolic BP in the remote group further decreased to 134.4&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.25&#x000a0;mm Hg, widening the adjusted difference to &#x02212;2.7&#x000a0;mm Hg (95% CI: &#x02212;4.45, &#x02212;0.96), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.002, compared to 137.01&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;12.19&#x000a0;mm Hg in the usual care group. However, mean systolic BP at 12&#x000a0;months and mean diastolic BP at 6, 12, and 24&#x000a0;months decreased more in the remote care group than in the usual care group; however, the difference was not statistically significant. The mean systolic and diastolic BPs were not significantly lower in the self-monitoring group than in the usual care group at any time point. At 24&#x000a0;months, the adjusted mean difference in diastolic BP was slightly higher in the self-monitoring group (1.39&#x000a0;mm Hg, 95% CI: 0.21, 2.59, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.021) but was not statistically significant (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref>). Moreover, compared to the self-monitoring group, the remote-monitoring group showed significantly greater reductions in both systolic and diastolic BPs (Additional file <xref rid="MOESM2" ref-type="media">2</xref>: Table S1).
<table-wrap id="Tab2"><label>Table 2</label><caption><p>Differences in systolic and diastolic BP across interventions&#x000a0;in all participants</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left"/><th align="left"><bold>Baseline</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>6&#x000a0;month</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>12&#x000a0;month</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>24&#x000a0;month</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>Difference in BP from baseline to 24-month</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>6-month adjusted mean difference vs usual care</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>12-month adjusted mean difference vs usual care</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>24-month adjusted mean difference vs usual care</bold></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left" colspan="9"><bold>All participants</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9"><bold>Systolic BP (mm Hg)</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Usual care (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;332)</td><td char="." align="char">143.93&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;15.56</td><td char="." align="char">137.34&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;13.70</td><td char="." align="char">136.28&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;12.24</td><td char="." align="char">137.01&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;12.19</td><td align="left">&#x02212;6.29&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;14.74</td><td align="left">-</td><td align="left">-</td><td align="left">-</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Self-monitoring (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;337)</td><td char="." align="char">145.45&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;15.45</td><td char="." align="char">138.13&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;14.0</td><td char="." align="char">138.16&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;12.64</td><td char="." align="char">138.46&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;12.92</td><td align="left">&#x02212;6.98&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;16.37</td><td align="left">0.13(&#x02212;1.83,2.08), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.9</td><td align="left">1.33(&#x02212;0.46,3.11), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.146</td><td align="left">0.97(0.90,2.84), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.309</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Remote (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;337)</td><td char="." align="char">144.28&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;16.53</td><td char="." align="char">135.10&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;13.53</td><td char="." align="char">134.72&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.79</td><td char="." align="char">134.4&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.25</td><td align="left">&#x02212;9.88&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;16.95</td><td align="left">&#x02212;2.38(&#x02212;4.31,&#x02212;0.45), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.016*</td><td align="left">&#x02212;1.67(&#x02212;3.42,0.83), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.062</td><td align="left">&#x02212;2.7(&#x02212;4.45,&#x02212;0.96), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.002*</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9"><bold>Diastolic BP (mm Hg)</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Usual care (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;332)</td><td char="." align="char">86.07&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;10.41</td><td char="." align="char">81.68&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.93</td><td char="." align="char">80.28&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.71</td><td char="." align="char">80.02&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;7.72</td><td align="left">&#x02212;5.94&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;10.38</td><td align="left">-</td><td align="left">-</td><td align="left">-</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Self-monitoring (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;337)</td><td char="." align="char">85.96&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;10.48</td><td char="." align="char">82.31&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;9.02</td><td char="." align="char">81.6&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.23</td><td char="." align="char">81.63&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.45</td><td align="left">&#x02212;4.99&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;9.89</td><td align="left">0.33(&#x02212;0.91,1.56), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.602</td><td align="left">1.06(&#x02212;0.15,2.27), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.085</td><td align="left">1.39(0.21,2.59), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.021</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Remote (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;337)</td><td char="." align="char">86.63&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;10.24</td><td char="." align="char">80.99&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;9.32</td><td char="." align="char">79.43&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.17</td><td char="." align="char">79.05&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.15</td><td align="left">&#x02212;6.58&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;9.66</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.55(&#x02212;1.80,0.70), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.391</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.74(&#x02212;1.92,0.45), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.221</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.86(&#x02212;2.01,0.29), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.143</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p><italic>BP</italic> Blood pressure</p><p>After Bonferroni adjustment, significant at <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.0167</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p><p id="Par35">An analysis of patients with substandard blood pressure at enrolment showed that the remote group had a notably greater decrease in systolic BP compared to the usual care group at 6, 12, and 24&#x000a0;months of follow-up, with a difference of &#x02212;4.79&#x000a0;mm Hg (95% CI: &#x02212;7.01, &#x02212;2.57) at 24&#x000a0;months (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001). The difference in mean diastolic BP between the groups increased progressively at 6, 12, and 24&#x000a0;months, with a difference of &#x02212;1.66&#x000a0;mm Hg (95% CI: &#x02212;3.08, &#x02212;0.24) at 24&#x000a0;months (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.022), which was not statistically significant. In patients with well-controlled BP at the time of selection, there were no significant differences between the groups (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab3" ref-type="table">3</xref>).
<table-wrap id="Tab3"><label>Table 3</label><caption><p>Differences in systolic and diastolic BP across interventions&#x000a0;in participants with uncontrolled and controlled baseline BP</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left"/><th align="left"><bold>Baseline</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>6&#x000a0;month</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>12&#x000a0;month</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>24&#x000a0;month</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>Difference in BP from baseline to 24-month</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>6-month adjusted mean difference vs usual care</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>12-month adjusted mean difference vs usual care</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>24-month adjusted mean difference vs usual care</bold></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left" colspan="9"><bold>Participants with baseline BP uncontrolled</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">&#x02003;<bold>Systolic BP (mm Hg)</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Usual care (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;217)</td><td align="left">152.8&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;10.08</td><td align="left">141.61&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;12.69</td><td align="left">139.83&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.8</td><td align="left">140.36&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;12.15</td><td align="left">&#x02212;12.44&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;2.22</td><td align="left">-</td><td align="left">-</td><td align="left">-</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Self-monitoring (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;229)</td><td align="left">153.26&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.27</td><td align="left">141.41&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.85</td><td align="left">141.09&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;12.21</td><td align="left">140.66&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;12.68</td><td align="left">&#x02212;12.59&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;4.32</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.39(&#x02212;2.88,2.09), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.756</td><td align="left">1.01(&#x02212;1.19,3.38), p&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.345</td><td align="left">0.14(&#x02212;2.21,2.49), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.906</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Remote (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;222)</td><td align="left">153.48&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.43</td><td align="left">137.76&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;13.02</td><td align="left">136.81&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.42</td><td align="left">135.78&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.13</td><td align="left">&#x02212;17.70&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;3.79</td><td align="left">&#x02212;4.12(&#x02212;6.54,&#x02212;1.69), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.001*</td><td align="left">&#x02212;3.22(&#x02212;5.44,&#x02212;1),p&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.005*</td><td align="left">&#x02212;4.79(&#x02212;7.01,&#x02212;2.57), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001*</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9"><bold>Diastolic BP (mm Hg)</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Usual care (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;217)</td><td align="left">89.89&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;9.85</td><td align="left">83.51&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;9.51</td><td align="left">81.9&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.87</td><td align="left">81.35&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;7.85</td><td align="left">&#x02212;8.54&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;10.44</td><td align="left">-</td><td align="left">-</td><td align="left">-</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Self-monitoring (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;229)</td><td align="left">90.21&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;9.50</td><td align="left">83.70&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;9.16</td><td align="left">83.09&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.33</td><td align="left">82.89&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.69</td><td align="left">&#x02212;7.32&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;9.97</td><td align="left">0.046(&#x02212;1.57,1.66), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.956</td><td align="left">1.06(&#x02212;0.47,2.59), p&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.175</td><td align="left">1.44(&#x02212;0.10,2.97), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.66</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Remote (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;222)</td><td align="left">89.89&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;9.49</td><td align="left">82.31&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;9.24</td><td align="left">80.41&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.03</td><td align="left">79.69&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.10</td><td align="left">&#x02212;10.20&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.41</td><td align="left">&#x02212;1.20(&#x02212;2.82,0.43), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.149</td><td align="left">&#x02212;1.49(&#x02212;2.96,&#x02212;0.02), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.047</td><td align="left">&#x02212;1.66(&#x02212;3.08,&#x02212;0.24), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.022</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9"><bold>Participants with baseline BP controlled</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">&#x02003;<bold>Systolic BP (mm Hg)</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Usual care (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;115)</td><td align="left">127.17&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.81</td><td align="left">129.26&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.8</td><td align="left">129.56&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;10.06</td><td align="left">130.67&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;9.5</td><td align="left">3.5&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.5</td><td align="left">-</td><td align="left">-</td><td align="left">-</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Self-monitoring (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;108)</td><td align="left">128.89&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.29</td><td align="left">131.12&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.58</td><td align="left">131.93&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.02</td><td align="left">133.78&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;12.23</td><td align="left">4.99&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;13.91</td><td align="left">1.20(&#x02212;1.96,4.36), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.456</td><td align="left">1.84(&#x02212;1.04,4.72), p&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.209</td><td align="left">2.78(&#x02212;5.87,0.277), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.074</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Remote (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;115)</td><td align="left">126.57&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.35</td><td align="left">129.98&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;12.96</td><td align="left">130.68&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.47</td><td align="left">131.76&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.06</td><td align="left">5.20&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.4</td><td align="left">1.062(&#x02212;2.09,4.21), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.507</td><td align="left">1.36(&#x02212;1.48,4.19), p&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.347</td><td align="left">1.30(&#x02212;1.44,4.03), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.351</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9"><bold>Diastolic BP (mm Hg)</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Usual care (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;115)</td><td align="left">78.53&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;7.05</td><td align="left">78.23&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;6.49</td><td align="left">77.23&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;7.53</td><td align="left">77.49&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;6.8</td><td align="left">&#x02212;1.041&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.33</td><td align="left">-</td><td align="left">-</td><td align="left">-</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Self-monitoring (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;108)</td><td align="left">78.99&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;7.13</td><td align="left">79.36&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;7.98</td><td align="left">78.44&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;7.09</td><td align="left">78.96&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;7.25</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.31&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;7.69</td><td align="left">0.91(&#x02212;0.92,2.74), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.328</td><td align="left">1.06(&#x02212;0.89,3.01), p&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.286</td><td align="left">1.306(&#x02212;0.546,3.16), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.166</td></tr><tr><td align="left">emote (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;115)</td><td align="left">77.44&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;6.96</td><td align="left">78.44&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;6.98</td><td align="left">77.51&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.12</td><td align="left">77.81&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.15</td><td align="left">0.37&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;7.8</td><td align="left">0.82(&#x02212;1.07,2.71), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.395</td><td align="left">0.759(&#x02212;1.25,2.76), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.456</td><td align="left">0.756(&#x02212;1.18,2.69), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.442</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p><italic>BP</italic> Blood pressure</p><p>After Bonferroni adjustment, significant at <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.0167</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p></sec><sec id="Sec14"><title>The trend in BP changes</title><p id="Par36">Trend analysis showed that among all enrolled patients, the target BP attainment rate in the self-monitoring group was slightly lower than that in the usual care group at baseline (31.92% vs. 34.62%), whereas the remote monitoring group had a similar rate (34.19%). During the follow-up period, the attainment rate gradually increased in all groups, with the fastest increase observed in the first 3&#x000a0;months. While the rates in the usual care and self-monitoring groups stabilised after 3&#x000a0;months, the rate in the remote group stabilised after 6&#x000a0;months and then significantly increased again after 12&#x000a0;months, reaching 69.65% at 24&#x000a0;months compared to 60.14% in the usual care group and 53.09% in the self-monitoring group (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>A). In patients with substandard BP at baseline, the achievement rate increased in all three groups during the follow-up period, with the fastest rate of increase in the first 6&#x000a0;months, after which it levelled off. The remote group showed a significant upward trend from month 12, reaching an attainment rate of 67.48% at 24&#x000a0;months (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>B).<fig id="Fig2"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;2</label><caption><p>Trends in target BP attainment rates and values among the overall groups (<bold>A</bold>, <bold>C</bold>) and uncontrolled baseline BP groups (<bold>B</bold>, <bold>D</bold>). BP targets:&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;140/80&#x000a0;mm Hg for diabetics,&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;140/90&#x000a0;mm Hg for all others.&#x000a0;BP,&#x000a0;blood pressure</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4278_Fig2_HTML" id="MO2"/></fig></p><p id="Par37">The overall trend in BP value changes mirrored the attainment rate, with a rapid decrease during the first 6&#x000a0;months, and the remote group showed the greatest reduction (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>C). For participants with suboptimal baseline BP, the remote group continued to exhibit a slow decline after 6&#x000a0;months; at 24&#x000a0;months, the BP was approximately 135&#x000a0;mmHg, aligning with the group's average systolic BP, whereas the other two groups had average systolic BPs slightly&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;140&#x000a0;mm Hg, with no further significant decline (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>D).</p></sec><sec id="Sec15"><title>Subgroup analyses for differences in mean systolic BP</title><p id="Par38">Subgroup analyses revealed that among participants with uncontrolled baseline BP, the remote monitoring group showed significantly greater reductions in mean systolic BP at 24&#x000a0;months than the usual care group, across subgroups defined by sex, age, diabetes status, baseline systolic BP, BMI, anxiety, and sleep duration. The reduction was higher in females, individuals with diabetes, and those with baseline systolic BP&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;160&#x000a0;mmHg, but interaction effects were not statistically significant. No significant differences in BP reduction were observed between the self-monitoring and usual care groups in any subgroup (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig3" ref-type="fig">3</xref>).<fig id="Fig3"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;3</label><caption><p>Forest plot of subgroup analyses for differences in mean systolic BP from baseline to 24&#x000a0;months among participants with uncontrolled BP at baseline. BP targets:&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;140/80&#x000a0;mm Hg for diabetics,&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;140/90&#x000a0;mm Hg for all others.&#x000a0;BP,&#x000a0;blood pressure</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4278_Fig3_HTML" id="MO3"/></fig></p></sec><sec id="Sec16"><title>Treatment-induced changes in participants with uncontrolled baseline BP</title><p id="Par39">We further analysed participants with uncontrolled BP at baseline and identified the changes within each group and differences between the groups, from baseline to the end of follow-up. At the end of follow-up, all three groups showed significant lifestyle improvements: the proportion of smokers decreased and the average sleep duration increased. Both the usual care and remote monitoring groups exhibited significant improvements in salt intake, with a notable reduction in the proportion of participants consuming&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;12&#x000a0;g/day and an increase in those consuming less than 6&#x000a0;g/day. Although the self-monitoring group exhibited a similar trend, the changes were not statistically significant (Additional file <xref rid="MOESM2" ref-type="media">2</xref>: Table S2).</p><p id="Par40">In terms of medication use, all three groups showed significantly increased usage of calcium channel blockers (CCBs) and a higher proportion of patients receiving combination therapy at 24&#x000a0;months. The remote care group showed significantly increased use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs)/angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), and both the usual care and remote care groups had substantially higher use of diuretics (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab4" ref-type="table">4</xref>).
<table-wrap id="Tab4"><label>Table 4</label><caption><p>Changes in medication use before and after the intervention in participants with uncontrolled BP</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left" colspan="2">Antihypertensive medication, %</th><th align="left">Conventional group,<break/><italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;217</th><th align="left">Self-monitoring group,<break/><italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;229</th><th align="left">Remote group,<break/><italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;222</th><th align="left"><italic>P</italic> Value</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left" rowspan="2">ACEI/ARB/ARNI</td><td align="left">Baseline</td><td align="left">156(71.9)</td><td align="left">162(70.7)</td><td align="left">159(71.6)</td><td align="left">0.961</td></tr><tr><td align="left">24&#x000a0;months</td><td align="left">144(75.4)</td><td align="left">151(72.6)</td><td align="left">160(77.7) <sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">0.44</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="2">Calcium channel blockers</td><td align="left">Baseline</td><td align="left">108(49.8)</td><td align="left">124(54.1)</td><td align="left">121(54.5)</td><td align="left">0.542</td></tr><tr><td align="left">24&#x000a0;months</td><td align="left">121(63.4) <sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">142(68.3) <sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">155(75.2) <sup>a, b</sup></td><td align="left">0.036</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="2">Beta-blockers</td><td align="left">Baseline</td><td align="left">51(23.5)</td><td align="left">52(22.7)</td><td align="left">44(19.8)</td><td align="left">0.617</td></tr><tr><td align="left">24&#x000a0;months</td><td align="left">45(23.6)</td><td align="left">52(25)</td><td align="left">48(23.3)</td><td align="left">0.922</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="2">Diuretics</td><td align="left">Baseline</td><td align="left">35(16.1)</td><td align="left">48(21)</td><td align="left">44(19.8)</td><td align="left">0.41</td></tr><tr><td align="left">24&#x000a0;months</td><td align="left">47(24.6) <sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">51(24.5)</td><td align="left">77(37.4) <sup>a, b</sup></td><td align="left">0.004</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="2">Drug combination</td><td align="left">Baseline</td><td align="left">116(53.5)</td><td align="left">126(55)</td><td align="left">122(55)</td><td align="left">0.933</td></tr><tr><td align="left">24&#x000a0;months</td><td align="left">120(62.8) <sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">131(63)<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">151(73.3) <sup>a, b</sup></td><td align="left">0.034</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p><italic>BP</italic> Blood pressure</p><p><sup>a</sup>Significant difference between baseline and 24&#x000a0;months within the group, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05</p><p><sup>b</sup>Significant difference in the remote monitoring group compared with both the usual care and self-monitoring groups, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.0167</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p><p id="Par41">Furthermore, at 24&#x000a0;months, no significant differences in lifestyle changes were observed among the three groups. However, the remote group had a significantly higher proportion of participants using CCBs, diuretics, and combination therapy than the usual care and self-monitoring groups, indicating the advantage of the remote group in medication adjustment (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab4" ref-type="table">4</xref>; Additional file <xref rid="MOESM2" ref-type="media">2</xref>: Table S2).</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec17"><title>Discussion</title><sec id="Sec18"><title>Main findings</title><p id="Par42">The remote BP monitoring and management model is a hospital-community-individual management model, with the objective to include guidance from higher-level hospitals to community management. This includes remote monitoring of BP, timely detection of abnormal BP, lifestyle adjustment, and health education to achieve optimal management. After 24&#x000a0;months, the patients using remote monitoring had significantly lower systolic and diastolic BPs than those receiving clinical adjustment therapy. This reduction was achieved through increased titration or a combination of antihypertensive medications, demonstrating that remote monitoring reduces clinical inertia and optimises treatment.</p><p id="Par43">Notably, the self-monitoring group had the lowest target BP achievement rate at 24&#x000a0;months (53.09%), compared to the remote monitoring (69.65%) and usual care groups (60.14%), during the same period. A higher proportion of participants in the self-monitoring group (41.8%) had a BP close to the target (systolic BP 140&#x02013;145&#x000a0;mmHg), compared to the usual care (27.9%) and remote monitoring groups (30.2%). This suggests that despite improved awareness of BP changes, the self-monitoring group probably did not adopt appropriate lifestyle or treatment adjustments owing to a lack of necessary health guidance and professional intervention. Additionally, when BP is close to the target, patients may develop a sense of self-satisfaction, leading to treatment inertia, reduced medication adherence, and lifestyle changes. Finally, there was no significant difference in BP reduction between the self-monitoring and usual care groups, which is consistent with previous studies showing that self-monitoring without additional medical interventions has limited effects on BP control [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>]. This highlights the importance of health education regarding remote monitoring.</p><p id="Par44">This study first compared BP changes among the three patient groups at different time points. Significant reductions in BP levels were found after specific interventions, with the greatest improvement occurring within the first 6&#x000a0;months. This emphasises the importance of prompt action when BP control is inadequate, as timely measures can yield rapid health benefits. Further observation showed that the attainment rates in the remote group continued to decline significantly 1&#x000a0;year after intervention, highlighting the long-term effectiveness of remote intervention in BP management. A thorough assessment showed that among all enrolled patients, the systolic BP decreased by an additional 2.7&#x000a0;mm Hg in the remote group compared to the usual care group. Patients with suboptimal baseline BP had a significantly higher reduction in systolic BP (additional decrease of 4.79&#x000a0;mm Hg). The difference in reduction of diastolic BP between the remote and usual care groups gradually increased, reaching &#x02212;1.66&#x000a0;mm Hg at the 24&#x000a0;months. In particular, the Bonferroni correction used in the study design to adjust for significance levels is a relatively conservative approach that may miss meaningful differences. However, it is very likely that such differences would become statistically significant if the treatment duration were extended. This result shows that remote intervention is more effective in reducing BP, and surpassed other strategies with superior timeliness, continuity, and personalised treatment plans, emphasising its benefits in BP management.</p></sec><sec id="Sec19"><title>Strengths and weaknesses</title><p id="Par45">The distinguishing feature of our study is that remote monitoring of hypertension was performed through a 24-month follow-up period and quarterly assessments, offering robust evidence of BP trends and intergroup differences. Notably, the remote monitoring group exhibited sustained improvement beyond 12&#x000a0;months, demonstrating the effectiveness of consistent monitoring and intervention in achieving long-term BP control. Additionally, the self-monitoring group did not show greater benefits than the usual care group, likely because of the rigorous follow-up in the usual care group, which produced similar effects. This is the first large-scale randomised controlled trial on remote monitoring of hypertension in China, which further enhances the generalisability and representativeness of our findings.</p><p id="Par46">Our goal was to include individuals of all ages for broad representation and unbiased results. However, ensuring the participation of groups affected by economic hardships, limited technical skills, inadequate education, poor health, and other social factors remains a challenge. These groups often struggle to access and use remote monitoring technology, which can hinder healthcare access and worsen health inequalities. Previous studies have shown that socioeconomic status and age are significant barriers in adapting digital technology, as is the case in most impoverished areas of China [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>]. According to the 47th Statistical Report on Internet Development in China (2020), 29.6% of the general population did not use mobile internet, and 46% of this group comprised individuals aged&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;60&#x000a0;years [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR21">21</xref>]. Considering significant regional and economic disparities in the use of smart devices among older adults, we conducted a preliminary survey in Qingdao, China, prior to the initiation of the study. The results showed that the proportion of individuals aged&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;75&#x000a0;years who were proficient in using smart devices was significantly lower than that of individuals aged 60&#x02013;75&#x000a0;years. Therefore, individuals aged&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;75&#x000a0;years were excluded from the study due to cognitive and operational limitations that made it difficult for them to meet the technical requirements of remote monitoring. We acknowledge this limitation and aim to refine the remote monitoring program to better support these groups and enhance healthcare equity and accessibility.</p><p id="Par47">Unfortunately, we did not collect precise and complete information on changes in medication dosages, which represents a limitation in the design of our questionnaire. Additionally, we did not use electronic systems to monitor medication use, which is a reliable method for tracking medication usage [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR22">22</xref>]. Baseline data collection in this study was not comprehensive. It did not categorise hypertension stages or classifications, lacked long-term outcomes, such as cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events, as observational indicators, and did not include a comprehensive cost analysis. Further research is required to address these gaps.</p></sec><sec id="Sec20"><title>Changes in medication use</title><p id="Par48">It is generally believed that combination therapy can activate different pathophysiological pathways to achieve coordinated BP reduction more effectively, while also resulting in fewer adverse reactions [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>]. Empirical analysis revealed that a significantly higher proportion of the remote treatment group received combination therapy compared to the usual care group, highlighting the positive impact of remote monitoring in facilitating optimal BP management and reduction. A 2015 randomised controlled trial published in The Lancet found that sodium retention is likely the main cause of resistant hypertension, with spironolactone showing significant BP-lowering effects [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>]. In this study, a significant increase in diuretic use was observed in the remote treatment group, which likely contributed to better BP control in patients with hypertension. However, a detailed analyses of the specific types of diuretics involved was not performed. Additionally, the remote group had a higher rate of CCB use than the control group, which is consistent with the choice of combination therapy [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec21"><title>Clinical implications</title><p id="Par49">Investigations indicate that general practitioners rely on self-monitoring practices for managing hypertension and that at least one-third of patients with hypertension are self-monitoring [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR26">26</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR27">27</xref>]. Digital technologies, including smartphone applications and wearable devices, have demonstrated significant clinical benefits in BP monitoring and management [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>]. Telemedicine can alleviate the shortages in medical resources, and offers a viable solution for monitoring and managing BP in large patient populations, without geographical limitations. It enables timely medical advice and reduces the burden on hospitals and patients [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR28">28</xref>]. Implementing a cost-effective digital intervention to lower BP appears to be an appropriate strategy, although its implementation in real-world settings can be time consuming. For example, in the UK, key barriers in implementing home BP monitoring systems were overcome by incorporating extensive user feedback and optimised design, ensuring clear objectives, and enabling ease of use [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR29">29</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR31">31</xref>]. The development of remote systems requires ongoing technological research to improve patient acceptance, enhance data security, and ensure system compatibility and stability. Its effectiveness relies heavily on a multidisciplinary team of healthcare professionals including clinicians, pharmacists, and nurses. Therefore, enhancing team work and continuously advancing the skills and knowledge of its members are key challenges in optimising the efficiency and quality of remote monitoring services.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec22"><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par50">Overall, a hypertension management model using remote monitoring enables better BP control than traditional models and has the potential to serve as a powerful tool for reducing BP in patients. The next step is to devise ways to implement these strategies and attain the benefits.</p></sec><sec id="Sec23" sec-type="supplementary-material"><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>
<supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM1"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4278_MOESM1_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Additional file 1.&#x000a0;Study protocol.</p></caption></media></supplementary-material><supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM2"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4278_MOESM2_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Additional file 2.&#x000a0;Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria; Figure S1. Figure S1 - [Workflow of remote group]; Outpatient Blood Pressure Measurement; Table S1-S2. Table S1 - [BP differences between Self-monitoring and Remote group]; Table S2 - [Changes in Clinical Characteristics Before and After the Intervention in Participants with Uncontrolled Blood Pressure]; CONSORT.</p></caption></media></supplementary-material></p></sec></body><back><glossary><title>Abbreviations</title><def-list><def-item><term>BP</term><def><p id="Par6">Blood pressure</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>OBP</term><def><p id="Par7">Office blood pressure</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>WCH</term><def><p id="Par8">White coat hypertension</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CCB</term><def><p id="Par9">Calcium channel blocker</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ANOVA</term><def><p id="Par10">One-way analysis of variance</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CI</term><def><p id="Par11">Confidence interval</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>BMI</term><def><p id="Par12">Body mass index</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ACEIs</term><def><p id="Par13">Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ARBs</term><def><p id="Par14">Angiotensin receptor blockers</p></def></def-item></def-list></glossary><fn-group><fn><p><bold>Publisher&#x02019;s Note</bold></p><p>Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.</p></fn><fn><p>Tian-qi Teng and Gui-xia Sun contributed equally to this work and share first authorship.</p></fn></fn-group><ack><title>Acknowledgements</title><p>We acknowledge all participants included in present study.</p></ack><notes notes-type="author-contribution"><title>Authors&#x02019; contributions</title><p>All authors read and approved the final manuscript. TT: Conceptualization, methodology, formal analysis, drafting the original, review and editing, project management. GS: Conceptualization, investigation, data organization, drafting the original, review and editing, supervision. ZY, ZL, TW, QW, RQ, MW: Experiment implementation, data collection. RC, JX, NZ, BS, XL, YZ: Follow-up, data organization, and data analysis. HY: Conceptualization, supervision, project management, fund acquisition.</p></notes><notes notes-type="funding-information"><title>Funding</title><p>This study is funded by the Qingdao Municipal Science and Technology Bureau under its Science and Technology Beneficial Demonstration Guidance Special Fund project plan. The Project Leader is Hai-Chu Yu. Award Number: 20&#x02013;3-4&#x02013;54-nsh.</p></notes><notes notes-type="data-availability"><title>Data availability</title><p>The datasets analysed during the current study are not publicly available due to protecting participants'privacy, but are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.</p></notes><notes><title>Declarations</title><notes id="FPar1"><title>Ethics approval and consent to participate</title><p id="Par51">This study was approved by the Ethics Committee of Qingdao University Affiliated Cardiovascular Hospital (approval number: 2019&#x02013;01-01). Written informed consent was obtained from all participants.</p></notes><notes id="FPar2"><title>Consent for publication</title><p id="Par52">Not applicable.</p></notes><notes id="FPar3" notes-type="COI-statement"><title>Competing interests</title><p id="Par53">The authors declare no competing interests.</p></notes></notes><ref-list id="Bib1"><title>References</title><ref id="CR1"><label>1.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR1" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Tadic</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Cuspidi</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Marwick</surname><given-names>TH</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Phenotyping the hypertensive heart</article-title><source>Eur Heart J</source><year>2022</year><volume>43</volume><fpage>3794</fpage><lpage>3810</lpage><?supplied-pmid 35869979?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35869979</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR1" publication-type="journal">Tadic M, Cuspidi C, Marwick TH. Phenotyping the hypertensive heart. Eur Heart J. 2022;43:3794&#x02013;810.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35869979</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR2"><label>2.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR2" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Cipolla</surname><given-names>MJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Liebeskind</surname><given-names>DS</given-names></name><name><surname>Chan</surname><given-names>S-L</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The importance of comorbidities in ischemic stroke: impact of hypertension on the cerebral circulation</article-title><source>J Cereb Blood Flow Metab</source><year>2018</year><volume>38</volume><fpage>2129</fpage><lpage>2149</lpage><?supplied-pmid 30198826?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30198826</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR2" publication-type="journal">Cipolla MJ, Liebeskind DS, Chan S-L. The importance of comorbidities in ischemic stroke: impact of hypertension on the cerebral circulation. J Cereb Blood Flow Metab. 2018;38:2129&#x02013;49.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30198826</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR3"><label>3.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR3" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Tian</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Liang</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Renal metabolism and hypertension</article-title><source>Nat Commun</source><year>2021</year><volume>12</volume><fpage>963</fpage><?supplied-pmid 33574248?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33574248</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR3" publication-type="journal">Tian Z, Liang M. Renal metabolism and hypertension. Nat Commun. 2021;12:963.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33574248</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR4"><label>4.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR4" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Leong</surname><given-names>DP</given-names></name><name><surname>Joseph</surname><given-names>PG</given-names></name><name><surname>McKee</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Anand</surname><given-names>SS</given-names></name><name><surname>Teo</surname><given-names>KK</given-names></name><name><surname>Schwalm</surname><given-names>J-D</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Reducing the global burden of cardiovascular disease, part 2: prevention and treatment of cardiovascular disease</article-title><source>Circ Res</source><year>2017</year><volume>121</volume><fpage>695</fpage><lpage>710</lpage><?supplied-pmid 28860319?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28860319</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR4" publication-type="journal">Leong DP, Joseph PG, McKee M, Anand SS, Teo KK, Schwalm J-D, et al. Reducing the global burden of cardiovascular disease, part 2: prevention and treatment of cardiovascular disease. Circ Res. 2017;121:695&#x02013;710.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28860319</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR5"><label>5.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR5" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Parati</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Goncalves</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Soergel</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Bruno</surname><given-names>RM</given-names></name><name><surname>Caiani</surname><given-names>EG</given-names></name><name><surname>Gerdts</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>New perspectives for hypertension management: Progress in methodological and technological developments</article-title><source>Eur J Prev Cardiol</source><year>2023</year><volume>30</volume><fpage>48</fpage><lpage>60</lpage><?supplied-pmid 36073370?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36073370</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR5" publication-type="journal">Parati G, Goncalves A, Soergel D, Bruno RM, Caiani EG, Gerdts E, et al. New perspectives for hypertension management: Progress in methodological and technological developments. Eur J Prev Cardiol. 2023;30:48&#x02013;60.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36073370</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR6"><label>6.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR6" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Chia</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Pandey</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Vongpatanasin</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Resistant hypertension-defining the scope of the problem</article-title><source>Prog Cardiovasc Dis</source><year>2020</year><volume>63</volume><fpage>46</fpage><lpage>50</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31863785?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31863785</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR6" publication-type="journal">Chia R, Pandey A, Vongpatanasin W. Resistant hypertension-defining the scope of the problem. Prog Cardiovasc Dis. 2020;63:46&#x02013;50.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31863785</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR7"><label>7.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR7" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Beger</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Haller</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Limbourg</surname><given-names>FP</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Telemonitoring und E-health bei arterieller hypertonie: Status quo und perspektiven</article-title><source>Internist (Berl)</source><year>2021</year><volume>62</volume><fpage>263</fpage><lpage>268</lpage><?supplied-pmid 33580308?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33580308</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR7" publication-type="journal">Beger C, Haller H, Limbourg FP. Telemonitoring und E-health bei arterieller hypertonie: Status quo und perspektiven. Internist (Berl). 2021;62:263&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33580308</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR8"><label>8.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR8" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>McEvoy</surname><given-names>JW</given-names></name><name><surname>McCarthy</surname><given-names>CP</given-names></name><name><surname>Bruno</surname><given-names>RM</given-names></name><name><surname>Brouwers</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Canavan</surname><given-names>MD</given-names></name><name><surname>Ceconi</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>2024 ESC guidelines for the management of elevated blood pressure and hypertension</article-title><source>Eur Heart J</source><year>2024</year><volume>45</volume><fpage>ehae178</fpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR8" publication-type="journal">McEvoy JW, McCarthy CP, Bruno RM, Brouwers S, Canavan MD, Ceconi C, et al. 2024 ESC guidelines for the management of elevated blood pressure and hypertension. Eur Heart J. 2024;45: ehae178.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR9"><label>9.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR9" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Mancia</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Facchetti</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Bombelli</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Cuspidi</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Grassi</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>White-coat hypertension: pathophysiological and clinical aspects: excellence award for hypertension research 2020</article-title><source>Hypertension</source><year>2021</year><volume>78</volume><fpage>1677</fpage><lpage>1688</lpage><?supplied-pmid 34757765?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34757765</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR9" publication-type="journal">Mancia G, Facchetti R, Bombelli M, Cuspidi C, Grassi G. White-coat hypertension: pathophysiological and clinical aspects: excellence award for hypertension research 2020. Hypertension. 2021;78:1677&#x02013;88.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34757765</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR10"><label>10.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR10" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Cuspidi</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Paoletti</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Tadic</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Sala</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Dell&#x02019;Oro</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Grassi</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>American versus European hypertension guidelines: the case of white coat hypertension</article-title><source>Am J Hypertens</source><year>2020</year><volume>33</volume><fpage>629</fpage><lpage>33</lpage><?supplied-pmid 32347901?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32347901</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR10" publication-type="journal">Cuspidi C, Paoletti F, Tadic M, Sala C, Dell&#x02019;Oro R, Grassi G, et al. American versus European hypertension guidelines: the case of white coat hypertension. Am J Hypertens. 2020;33:629&#x02013;33.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32347901</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR11"><label>11.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Doogue, Hayes, Tucker, Fahey, Sheikhi, Koshiaris, et al. Self-monitoring for improving control of blood pressure in patients with hypertension: A cochrane intervention review. Rural Remote Health. 2023. 10.22605/RRH8170.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR12"><label>12.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR12" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Tucker</surname><given-names>KL</given-names></name><name><surname>Sheppard</surname><given-names>JP</given-names></name><name><surname>Stevens</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Bosworth</surname><given-names>HB</given-names></name><name><surname>Bove</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Bray</surname><given-names>EP</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Self-monitoring of blood pressure in hypertension: a systematic review and individual patient data meta-analysis</article-title><source>PLoS Med</source><year>2017</year><volume>14</volume><fpage>e1002389</fpage><?supplied-pmid 28926573?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28926573</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR12" publication-type="journal">Tucker KL, Sheppard JP, Stevens R, Bosworth HB, Bove A, Bray EP, et al. Self-monitoring of blood pressure in hypertension: a systematic review and individual patient data meta-analysis. PLoS Med. 2017;14: e1002389.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28926573</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR13"><label>13.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR13" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Hayek</surname><given-names>MA</given-names></name><name><surname>Giannouchos</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Lawley</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Kum</surname><given-names>H-C</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Economic evaluation of blood pressure monitoring techniques in patients with hypertension: a systematic review</article-title><source>JAMA Netw Open</source><year>2023</year><volume>6</volume><fpage>e2344372</fpage><?supplied-pmid 37988078?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37988078</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR13" publication-type="journal">Hayek MA, Giannouchos T, Lawley M, Kum H-C. Economic evaluation of blood pressure monitoring techniques in patients with hypertension: a systematic review. JAMA Netw Open. 2023;6:e2344372.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37988078</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR14"><label>14.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR14" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>McManus</surname><given-names>RJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Mant</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Franssen</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Nickless</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Schwartz</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Hodgkinson</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Efficacy of self-monitored blood pressure, with or without telemonitoring, for titration of antihypertensive medication (TASMINH4): an unmasked randomised controlled trial</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2018</year><volume>391</volume><fpage>949</fpage><lpage>59</lpage><?supplied-pmid 29499873?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29499873</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR14" publication-type="journal">McManus RJ, Mant J, Franssen M, Nickless A, Schwartz C, Hodgkinson J, et al. Efficacy of self-monitored blood pressure, with or without telemonitoring, for titration of antihypertensive medication (TASMINH4): an unmasked randomised controlled trial. Lancet. 2018;391:949&#x02013;59.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29499873</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR15"><label>15.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR15" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sheppard</surname><given-names>JP</given-names></name><name><surname>Tucker</surname><given-names>KL</given-names></name><name><surname>Davison</surname><given-names>WJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Stevens</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Aekplakorn</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Bosworth</surname><given-names>HB</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Self-monitoring of blood pressure in patients with hypertension-related multi-morbidity: systematic review and individual patient data meta-analysis</article-title><source>Am J Hypertens</source><year>2020</year><volume>33</volume><fpage>243</fpage><lpage>51</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31730171?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31730171</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR15" publication-type="journal">Sheppard JP, Tucker KL, Davison WJ, Stevens R, Aekplakorn W, Bosworth HB, et al. Self-monitoring of blood pressure in patients with hypertension-related multi-morbidity: systematic review and individual patient data meta-analysis. Am J Hypertens. 2020;33:243&#x02013;51.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31730171</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR16"><label>16.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR16" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Doumas</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Tsioufis</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Fletcher</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Amdur</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Faselis</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Papademetriou</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Time in therapeutic range, as a determinant of all-cause mortality in patients with hypertension</article-title><source>J Am Heart Assoc</source><year>2017</year><volume>6</volume><fpage>e007131</fpage><?supplied-pmid 29101118?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29101118</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR16" publication-type="journal">Doumas M, Tsioufis C, Fletcher R, Amdur R, Faselis C, Papademetriou V. Time in therapeutic range, as a determinant of all-cause mortality in patients with hypertension. J Am Heart Assoc. 2017;6: e007131.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29101118</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR17"><label>17.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR17" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Williams</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Mancia</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Spiering</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Agabiti Rosei</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Azizi</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Burnier</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>2018 ESC/ESH guidelines for the management of arterial hypertension</article-title><source>Eur Heart J</source><year>2018</year><volume>39</volume><fpage>3021</fpage><lpage>104</lpage><?supplied-pmid 30165516?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30165516</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR17" publication-type="journal">Williams B, Mancia G, Spiering W, Agabiti Rosei E, Azizi M, Burnier M, et al. 2018 ESC/ESH guidelines for the management of arterial hypertension. Eur Heart J. 2018;39:3021&#x02013;104.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30165516</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR18"><label>18.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR18" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Green</surname><given-names>BB</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Effectiveness of home blood pressure monitoring, web communication, and pharmacist care on hypertension control: a randomized controlled trial</article-title><source>JAMA</source><year>2008</year><volume>299</volume><fpage>2857</fpage><?supplied-pmid 18577730?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18577730</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR18" publication-type="journal">Green BB. Effectiveness of home blood pressure monitoring, web communication, and pharmacist care on hypertension control: a randomized controlled trial. JAMA. 2008;299:2857.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18577730</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR19"><label>19.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR19" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Qu</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Houser</surname><given-names>SH</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Wen</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Association between using social media WeChat and depressive symptoms among middle-aged and older people: findings from a national survey</article-title><source>BMC Geriatr</source><year>2022</year><volume>22</volume><fpage>351</fpage><?supplied-pmid 35448984?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35448984</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR19" publication-type="journal">Qu X, Houser SH, Zhang J, Wen J, Zhang W. Association between using social media WeChat and depressive symptoms among middle-aged and older people: findings from a national survey. BMC Geriatr. 2022;22:351.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35448984</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR20"><label>20.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR20" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Sun</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The impact of media use on disparities in physical and mental health among the older people: an empirical analysis from China</article-title><source>Front Public Health</source><year>2022</year><volume>10</volume><fpage>949062</fpage><?supplied-pmid 36225780?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36225780</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR20" publication-type="journal">Wang H, Sun X, Wang R, Yang Y, Wang Y. The impact of media use on disparities in physical and mental health among the older people: an empirical analysis from China. Front Public Health. 2022;10:949062.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36225780</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR21"><label>21.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Cyberspace Administration of China. China Internet Development Report No.47. Beijing: CAC; 2021.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR22"><label>22.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR22" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Fletcher</surname><given-names>BR</given-names></name><name><surname>Hartmann-Boyce</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Hinton</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>McManus</surname><given-names>RJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The effect of self-monitoring of blood pressure on medication adherence and lifestyle factors: a systematic review and meta-analysis</article-title><source>Am J Hypertens</source><year>2015</year><volume>28</volume><fpage>1209</fpage><lpage>21</lpage><?supplied-pmid 25725092?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25725092</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR22" publication-type="journal">Fletcher BR, Hartmann-Boyce J, Hinton L, McManus RJ. The effect of self-monitoring of blood pressure on medication adherence and lifestyle factors: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Am J Hypertens. 2015;28:1209&#x02013;21.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25725092</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR23"><label>23.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR23" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Atkins</surname><given-names>ER</given-names></name><name><surname>Chow</surname><given-names>CK</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Low-dose combination therapy for initial treatment of hypertension</article-title><source>Curr Hypertens Rep</source><year>2020</year><volume>22</volume><fpage>65</fpage><?supplied-pmid 32852644?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32852644</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR23" publication-type="journal">Atkins ER, Chow CK. Low-dose combination therapy for initial treatment of hypertension. Curr Hypertens Rep. 2020;22:65.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32852644</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR24"><label>24.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR24" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Williams</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>MacDonald</surname><given-names>TM</given-names></name><name><surname>Morant</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Webb</surname><given-names>DJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Sever</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>McInnes</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Spironolactone versus placebo, bisoprolol, and doxazosin to determine the optimal treatment for drug-resistant hypertension (PATHWAY-2): a randomised, double-blind, crossover trial</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2015</year><volume>386</volume><fpage>2059</fpage><lpage>68</lpage><?supplied-pmid 26414968?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26414968</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR24" publication-type="journal">Williams B, MacDonald TM, Morant S, Webb DJ, Sever P, McInnes G, et al. Spironolactone versus placebo, bisoprolol, and doxazosin to determine the optimal treatment for drug-resistant hypertension (PATHWAY-2): a randomised, double-blind, crossover trial. Lancet. 2015;386:2059&#x02013;68.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26414968</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR25"><label>25.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Schiffrin EL, Fisher NDL. Diagnosis and management of resistant hypertension. BMJ. 2024;:e079108.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR26"><label>26.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR26" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Fletcher</surname><given-names>BR</given-names></name><name><surname>Hinton</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Bray</surname><given-names>EP</given-names></name><name><surname>Hayen</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Hobbs</surname><given-names>FR</given-names></name><name><surname>Mant</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Self-monitoring blood pressure in patients with hypertension: an internet-based survey of UK GPs</article-title><source>Br J Gen Pract</source><year>2016</year><volume>66</volume><fpage>e831</fpage><lpage>e837</lpage><?supplied-pmid 27578811?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27578811</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR26" publication-type="journal">Fletcher BR, Hinton L, Bray EP, Hayen A, Hobbs FR, Mant J, et al. Self-monitoring blood pressure in patients with hypertension: an internet-based survey of UK GPs. Br J Gen Pract. 2016;66:e831&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27578811</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR27"><label>27.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR27" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Hodgkinson</surname><given-names>JA</given-names></name><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>M-M</given-names></name><name><surname>Milner</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Bradburn</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Stevens</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Hobbs</surname><given-names>FR</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Accuracy of blood-pressure monitors owned by patients with hypertension (ACCU-RATE study): a cross-sectional, observational study in central England</article-title><source>Br J Gen Pract</source><year>2020</year><volume>70</volume><fpage>e548</fpage><lpage>e554</lpage><?supplied-pmid 32482629?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32482629</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR27" publication-type="journal">Hodgkinson JA, Lee M-M, Milner S, Bradburn P, Stevens R, Hobbs FR, et al. Accuracy of blood-pressure monitors owned by patients with hypertension (ACCU-RATE study): a cross-sectional, observational study in central England. Br J Gen Pract. 2020;70:e548&#x02013;54.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32482629</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR28"><label>28.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Thornton J. Covid-19: How coronavirus will change the face of general practice forever. BMJ. 2020;:m1279.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR29"><label>29.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR29" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Yardley</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Morrison</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Bradbury</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Muller</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The person-based approach to intervention development: application to digital health-related behavior change interventions</article-title><source>J Med Internet Res</source><year>2015</year><volume>17</volume><fpage>e30</fpage><?supplied-pmid 25639757?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25639757</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR29" publication-type="journal">Yardley L, Morrison L, Bradbury K, Muller I. The person-based approach to intervention development: application to digital health-related behavior change interventions. J Med Internet Res. 2015;17:e30.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25639757</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR30"><label>30.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR30" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Band</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Bradbury</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Morton</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>May</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Michie</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Mair</surname><given-names>FS</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Intervention planning for a digital intervention for self-management of hypertension: a theory-, evidence- and person-based approach</article-title><source>Implement Sci</source><year>2017</year><volume>12</volume><fpage>25</fpage><?supplied-pmid 28231840?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28231840</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR30" publication-type="journal">Band R, Bradbury K, Morton K, May C, Michie S, Mair FS, et al. Intervention planning for a digital intervention for self-management of hypertension: a theory-, evidence- and person-based approach. Implement Sci. 2017;12:25.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28231840</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR31"><label>31.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR31" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bradbury</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Morton</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Band</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Van Woezik</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Grist</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>McManus</surname><given-names>RJ</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Using the person-based approach to optimise a digital intervention for the management of hypertension</article-title><source>PLoS One</source><year>2018</year><volume>13</volume><fpage>e0196868</fpage><?supplied-pmid 29723262?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29723262</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR31" publication-type="journal">Bradbury K, Morton K, Band R, Van Woezik A, Grist R, McManus RJ, et al. Using the person-based approach to optimise a digital intervention for the management of hypertension. PLoS One. 2018;13: e0196868.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29723262</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref></ref-list></back></article>