# Plasma carotenoids are inversely correlated with granulocyte counts and soluble inflammatory markers in a middle-aged population: a cross-sectional study with mediation analysis.

<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//NLM//DTD JATS (Z39.96) Journal Archiving and Interchange DTD with MathML3 v1.3 20210610//EN" "JATS-archivearticle1-3-mathml3.dtd"> 
<article xmlns:ali="http://www.niso.org/schemas/ali/1.0/" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" article-type="research-article" dtd-version="1.3"><?properties open_access?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierValue -//Springer-Verlag//DTD A++ V2.4//EN?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierType public?><?SourceDTD.DTDName A++V2.4.dtd?><?SourceDTD.Version 2.4?><?ConverterInfo.XSLTName springer2nlmx2.xsl?><?ConverterInfo.Version 1?><processing-meta base-tagset="archiving" mathml-version="3.0" table-model="xhtml" tagset-family="jats"><restricted-by>pmc</restricted-by></processing-meta><front><journal-meta><journal-id journal-id-type="nlm-ta">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-id journal-id-type="iso-abbrev">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-title-group><journal-title>BMC Medicine</journal-title></journal-title-group><issn pub-type="epub">1741-7015</issn><publisher><publisher-name>BioMed Central</publisher-name><publisher-loc>London</publisher-loc></publisher></journal-meta>
<article-meta><article-id pub-id-type="pmcid">12261581</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="pmid">40660217</article-id>
<article-id pub-id-type="publisher-id">4266</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12916-025-04266-w</article-id><article-categories><subj-group subj-group-type="heading"><subject>Research</subject></subj-group></article-categories><title-group><article-title>Plasma carotenoids are inversely correlated with granulocyte counts and soluble inflammatory markers in a middle-aged population: a cross-sectional study with mediation analysis</article-title></title-group><contrib-group><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Neelissen</surname><given-names>Jan</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Leanderson</surname><given-names>Per</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Nystr&#x000f6;m</surname><given-names>Fredrik H.</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Jonasson</surname><given-names>Lena</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Chung</surname><given-names>Rosanna W. S.</given-names></name><address><email>rosanna.chung@liu.se</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><aff id="Aff1"><label>1</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/05ynxx418</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.5640.7</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 2162 9922</institution-id><institution>Division of Diagnostics and Specialist Medicine, Department of Health, Medicine and Caring Sciences, </institution><institution>Link&#x000f6;ping University, </institution></institution-wrap>Link&#x000f6;ping, 581 85 Sweden </aff><aff id="Aff2"><label>2</label>Occupational and Environmental Medicine Center in Link&#x000f6;ping, Link&#x000f6;ping, 581 85 Sweden </aff><aff id="Aff3"><label>3</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/05ynxx418</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.5640.7</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 2162 9922</institution-id><institution>Division of Prevention, Rehabilitation and Community, Department of Health, Medicine and Caring Sciences, </institution><institution>Link&#x000f6;ping University, </institution></institution-wrap>Link&#x000f6;ping, 581 85 Sweden </aff></contrib-group><pub-date pub-type="epub"><day>15</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="pmc-release"><day>15</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="collection"><year>2025</year></pub-date><volume>23</volume><elocation-id>427</elocation-id><history><date date-type="received"><day>28</day><month>2</month><year>2025</year></date><date date-type="accepted"><day>7</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></date></history><permissions><copyright-statement>&#x000a9; The Author(s) 2025</copyright-statement><copyright-year>2025</copyright-year><license><ali:license_ref specific-use="textmining" content-type="ccbylicense">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/</ali:license_ref><license-p><bold>Open Access</bold> This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article's Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article's Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/">http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/</ext-link>.</license-p></license></permissions><abstract id="Abs1"><sec><title>Background</title><p id="Par1">High intake of fruits and vegetables is generally associated with reduced levels of inflammation. In line with this, plasma levels of carotenoids have shown inverse associations with inflammatory markers, in particular C-reactive protein (CRP) and leukocyte counts. However, it remains unclear to what extent carotenoids are associated with specific leukocyte subsets or other inflammatory markers. This study systematically assessed the inter-relationships among total and individual carotenoids, circulating leukocyte subsets, and soluble inflammatory markers in a middle-aged population.</p></sec><sec><title>Methods</title><p id="Par2">A subcohort of 1078 subjects, aged 50&#x02013;64, was recruited from the Swedish CArdioPulmonary bioImage Study (SCAPIS) cohort. Leukocyte subsets were determined by whole blood flow cytometry. Five major carotenoids, namely lutein, &#x003b2;-cryptoxanthin, lycopene, &#x003b1;-carotene and &#x003b2;-carotene, and inflammatory markers including CRP, interleukin (IL)-6 and interleukin-18, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9, and myeloperoxidase (MPO), were measured in plasma. Nutrient intake was estimated by validated food frequency questionnaires.</p></sec><sec><title>Results</title><p id="Par3">Among leukocyte subsets, only granulocytes showed independent and inverse associations with all carotenoids after adjustment. CRP, IL-18, and MMP-9 exhibited similar inverse relationships with most carotenoids. Mediation analysis revealed that the associations of carotenoids with CRP and MMP-9 were mediated by granulocyte counts. Lutein and &#x003b2;-cryptoxanthin remained independently associated with MMP-9 after accounting for the mediation effects of granulocyte counts. No estimated nutrient intake showed comparable associations with leukocyte subsets or inflammatory markers.</p></sec><sec><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par4">To our knowledge, this is the largest population-based study investigating relationships between plasma carotenoids, leukocyte subsets, and soluble inflammatory markers. It provides evidence that low levels of carotenoids in plasma are linked to low-grade chronic inflammation and, furthermore, that this relationship is mediated by granulocyte numbers.</p></sec><sec><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12916-025-04266-w.</p></sec></abstract><kwd-group xml:lang="en"><title>Keywords</title><kwd>Carotenoid</kwd><kwd>Leukocyte</kwd><kwd>Granulocyte</kwd><kwd>C-reactive protein</kwd><kwd>Interleukin-18</kwd><kwd>Matrix metalloproteinase-9</kwd><kwd>Population-based cohort</kwd></kwd-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>CirM strategic research network</institution></funding-source></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="FundRef">https://doi.org/10.13039/501100004359</institution-id><institution>Vetenskapsr&#x000e5;det</institution></institution-wrap></funding-source><award-id>2018-03232</award-id></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>Hj&#x000e4;rt-Lungfonden,Sweden</institution></funding-source><award-id>20180436</award-id></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>&#x000c5;ke-Wibergs Foundation, Sweden</institution></funding-source><award-id>M23-0074</award-id></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>Stina and Birger Johansson Foundation</institution></funding-source><award-id>R&#x000d6;-995110</award-id></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>Link&#x000f6;ping University</institution></funding-source></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>Link&#x000f6;ping University</institution></funding-source></award-group><open-access><p>Open access funding provided by Link&#x000f6;ping University.</p></open-access></funding-group><custom-meta-group><custom-meta><meta-name>issue-copyright-statement</meta-name><meta-value>&#x000a9; BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2025</meta-value></custom-meta></custom-meta-group></article-meta></front><body><sec id="Sec2"><title>Background</title><p id="Par32">Chronic low-grade inflammation is recognized as a key contributor to the growing prevalence of age-related diseases, such as cardiovascular disease, autoimmune diseases, and cancer. Thus, as a preventive strategy, significant interest is in managing or suppressing chronic low-grade inflammation [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>]. Its prevalence generally begins to increase around middle age [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>]. The increase in chronic low-grade inflammation may be explained by multiple factors including repeated activation of the immune system, secretion of pro-inflammatory adipokines, and production of pro-inflammatory metabolites from the gut microbiota [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>].
</p><p id="Par33">Pharmaceutical agents may effectively suppress inflammation; however, this approach is associated with substantial adverse effects when applied to chronic low-grade inflammation. Instead, suppressing low-grade inflammation safely and affordably through diet could be a viable option [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>]. A diet high in fruit and vegetable intake has been consistently linked to lower inflammation [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>]. Whether this mainly reflects a healthy lifestyle or is due to direct anti-inflammatory effects by bioactive components in the diet is still a matter of dispute. Mounting evidence from experimental animal and in vitro models indicates that carotenoids, a group of phytopigments with antioxidant effects, also exert anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory effects [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>]. Also, a number of epidemiological studies have reported C-reactive protein (CRP), a well-established marker of systemic inflammation, to be inversely associated with estimated intake or plasma levels of carotenoids [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>]. In addition, a few clinical studies have reported inverse associations between carotenoid levels and other soluble inflammatory markers such as interleukin (IL)&#x02212;6, tumor necrosis factor (TNF), and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)&#x02212;9 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>].</p><p id="Par34">An inverse relationship between plasma carotenoids and circulating leukocyte counts has also been reported in population-based cohorts [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>]. However, the leukocyte population is composed of innate and adaptive immune cells, and to what extent specific immune cell populations are affected by carotenoids is largely under-investigated. Carotenoid supplementation in humans has been shown to increase CD4<sup>+</sup> T cell proliferation [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>] while, on the other hand, a high intake of fruits and vegetables has been linked to lower counts of lymphocytes in a general population cohort [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>].</p><p id="Par35">In the present study, we hypothesized that plasma levels of carotenoids associate with certain leukocyte subsets and, furthermore, that these leukocyte subsets may influence the levels of inflammatory markers. The inter-relationships among plasma carotenoids, soluble inflammatory markers, and circulating leukocyte subsets were systematically elucidated by mediation analyses in a large, well-characterized middle-aged population.</p></sec><sec id="Sec3"><title>Methods</title><sec id="Sec4"><title>Study population</title><p id="Par36">The Swedish CArdioPulmonary bioImage Study (SCAPIS) is a multicentre population-based prospective study comprising 30,000 individuals aged 50&#x02013;64 recruited between 2013 and 2018 at six Swedish university hospitals [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>]. The SCAPIS Leukocyte subcohort of 1078 participants was consecutively recruited from the SCAPIS center at Link&#x000f6;ping University Hospital to establish an immune cell profile in whole fresh blood using flow cytometry [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>]. Seventy-two subjects were excluded from the study due to active inflammation defined as CRP&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;10&#x000a0;mg/L (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;27), technical failure in analyzing plasma carotenoids (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;9), or suspected intake of carotenoid supplements based on exceptionally high levels of plasma carotenoids (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;36). This study uses a cross-sectional design, analyzing data collected at the baseline of the subcohort. A study flow chart is shown in Additional file 1: Fig. S1.</p></sec><sec id="Sec5"><title>Plasma carotenoids</title><p id="Par37">Carotenoids (lutein&#x02009;+&#x02009;zeaxanthin, &#x003b2;-cryptoxanthin, lycopene, &#x003b1;-carotene, &#x003b2;-carotene) were quantified using a modified version of a high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method previously described [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>]. Lutein and zeaxanthin are presented as a combined value as they are isomers, with zeaxanthin estimated to represent less than 15% of this total [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>]. To improve readability, the word &#x0201c;lutein&#x0201d; implies &#x0201c;lutein&#x02009;+&#x02009;zeaxanthin&#x0201d; from this point onwards. See Supplementary Methods for details (Additional file 1: Supplementary methods and Fig. S2).</p></sec><sec id="Sec6"><title>Leukocyte subsets</title><p id="Par38">Measurements of leukocyte subsets in EDTA-whole blood were performed within 1&#x000a0;h after blood collection at the Department of Clinical Immunology and Transfusion Medicine, Link&#x000f6;ping University Hospital, Link&#x000f6;ping, Sweden. BD Multitest Trucount tubes (Becton, Dickinson and Company, Franklin Lakes, USA) were used to obtain absolute counts of granulocytes, monocytes, lymphocytes, natural killer (NK) cells, B cells and T cells, including CD4&#x02009;+&#x02009;and CD8&#x02009;+&#x02009;T cells. See Supplementary Methods for details (Additional file 1: Supplementary methods and Fig. S3&#x02013;4). The absolute count of leukocytes is the sum of the granulocyte, monocyte, and lymphocyte counts.</p></sec><sec id="Sec7"><title>Lipid profile, blood glucose, and inflammatory markers</title><p id="Par39">Clinical plasma parameters including total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, triglycerides, along with glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) were determined in fasted plasma samples by the Department of Clinical Chemistry, Link&#x000f6;ping University Hospital following manufacturers&#x02019; protocols. CRP was measured in plasma using an immunoturbidimetric assay with a Roche Cobas C502 analyzer (Roche Diagnostics, Scandinavia AB) with an inter-assay CV of 2.2%.</p><p id="Par40">IL-18, IL-6, MMP-9, and MPO were quantified in plasma via electrochemiluminescence using the U-Plex Meso Scale Discovery (MSD) platform (Rockville, USA) following manufacturers&#x02019; instructions. Analysis was performed at SciLifeLab Affinity Proteomics Unit, Uppsala, Sweden. Inter-assay CVs were 10.6% for IL-18, 21.3% for IL-6, 5.4% for MMP-9, and 11.6% for MPO.</p></sec><sec id="Sec8"><title>Assessment of covariates</title><p id="Par41">History of chronic diseases, including cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, cancer, and autoimmune diseases, and use of antihypertensive or cholesterol-lowering medication were self-reported using a questionnaire. Smoking was categorized into active smokers or non-smokers. Nutrient and alcohol intake were estimated using a validated food-frequency questionnaire Meal-Q (MiniMeal-Q) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>].</p><p id="Par42">Moderate and vigorous physical activity patterns were quantified using tri-axial accelerometers (ActiGraph LCC, Pensacola, FL, USA) worn for seven days during waking hours, as previously described [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>]. Participants were only included if they had a minimum of 600&#x000a0;min of valid daily wear time on at least four days. Physical activity level was expressed as daily tri-axial vector magnitude counts per minute (cpm). Moderate and vigorous physical activity was defined as periods with&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;2690&#x000a0;cpm, presented as a percentage of total wear time.</p><p id="Par43">Body mass index (BMI) was calculated by dividing the body weight in kilograms by the square of height in meters. Weight was measured in light clothing on calibrated scales. Abdominal obesity was defined as a waist-to-hip ratio of&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;0.85 for women and&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;0.90 for men. Blood pressure was measured in the right brachial artery following a 5-min supine rest. An average of three measurements was used.</p></sec><sec id="Sec9"><title>Statistical analyses</title><p id="Par44">Statistical analysis was done using IBM SPSS Statistics (version 28.0). Plasma levels of carotenoids were analyzed alone (lutein, &#x003b2;-cryptoxanthin, lycopene, &#x003b1;-carotene, &#x003b2;-carotene) or combined as total carotenoids. Characteristics across genders and tertiles of carotenoids in plasma were compared using the chi-square test for categorical variables and the Mann&#x02013;Whitney <italic>U</italic> tests (across genders) or the Kruskal&#x02013;Wallis <italic>H</italic> test (across tertiles) for continuous variables.</p><p id="Par45">Univariate correlations between tertiles of carotenoids, both leukocyte subsets and inflammatory markers, were determined using Spearman&#x02019;s <italic>r</italic> correlation coefficient. Leukocyte subsets and inflammatory markers were log-transformed to meet assumptions of linearity. Linear multiple regression was used to further adjust for covariates and to assess the relationship between tertiles of carotenoids and leukocyte subsets or inflammatory markers. Only the leukocyte subsets significantly correlated with carotenoids were analyzed in this step. Regression was run in three separate models; model 0&#x02014;unadjusted, model 1&#x02014;adjusted for age and gender, and model 2&#x02014;adjusted for age, gender, abdominal obesity, total cholesterol, anti-hypertensive medication (self-reported), smoking status, diabetes mellitus (self-reported), estimated intake of polyunsaturated fatty acids, and levels of moderate and vigorous physical activity. Model 2 was referred to as the full adjustment model in the present study. Leukocyte subsets and inflammatory markers were log-transformed to meet assumptions of linearity. The percentage change of leukocyte subsets or inflammatory markers corresponding to each increasing terile of plasma carotenoid levels was obtained following the formula (exp(&#x003b2;)&#x02212;1*100%, where exp stands for exponentiation. The obtained values were named &#x0201c;effect size.&#x0201d; Two-tailed <italic>p</italic>-values&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05 were considered significant.</p><p id="Par46">The associations between different carotenoid levels and various outcomes were further investigated in a series of mediation analyses [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>]. All subjects who satisfied the inclusion criteria were included. Mediation analyses hypothesized that the association between the exposure variable (X; plasma carotenoid levels) and the outcome variable (Y) is mediated by a mediator (M). To be qualified for further mediation modeling, significant linear associations (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05) between the following variables had to be found: 1) between the exposure variable (X; plasma carotenoids) and the outcome variable (Y). This is referred to as &#x0201c;XY (Direct effect)&#x0201d; in the present study; 2) between the exposure variable (X; plasma carotenoids) and the mediator variable (M); 3) between the mediator variable (M) and the outcome variable (Y). All parameters were log-transformed to improve linearity. A macro plug-in called PROCESS [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>] was used in SPSS to calculate the indirect effect of the exposure mediated by the mediator. This is referred to as &#x0201c;XY (mediated by M)&#x0201d; in the present study. The results were adjusted for the same confounders included in model 2 of the multivariate modeling. Mediation was considered present when the &#x0201c;XY (Direct effect)&#x0201d; was reduced when the mediator was introduced (i.e., &#x0201c;XY (mediated by M)&#x0201d;&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;&#x0201c;XY (Direct effect)&#x0201d;). The significance of the observed mediation was calculated using the Sobel test [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>]. After Bonferroni correction for three-factor comparison, the mediated effects with <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.017 were considered significant. The variance accounted for (VAF) scores are the ratio of &#x0201c;XY (mediated by M)&#x0201d; by &#x0201c;XY (Direct effect)&#x0201d; which represents the magnitude of the mediation effect. A VAF larger than 0.8 is considered complete mediation. All <italic>p</italic>-values were reported with 3 decimal places. <italic>P</italic>-values less than 0.001 were reported as &#x0201c;&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001&#x0201d;.</p><p id="Par47">Sensitivity analyses were conducted to test the robustness of our main findings. The strategies included [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>] modeling the plasma levels of total carotenoid and carotenoid subtypes as continuous variables in the mediation analyses, and [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>] conducting multiple imputation of missing values. There was no change in direction or significance of the main findings. In total, 0.5% missing values were spread across 72 individuals in 9 out of 24 variables. No variable had more than 5% missing values. Subjects with missing values for a given variable were excluded from analyses involving that variable.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec10"><title>Results</title><sec id="Sec11"><title>Cohort characteristics</title><p id="Par48">The study population was stratified by total or individual carotenoid levels in plasma. There was a significantly lower proportion of women in the lowest tertiles of total and individual carotenoids, except lycopene (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref> and Additional file 1: Table S1&#x02013;2). Individuals within the lowest tertile of plasma carotenoids also showed lower levels of moderate and vigorous physical activity and were more often smokers. They had higher obesity rates, more antihypertensive medication, higher levels of blood pressure, as well as higher levels of blood glucose and plasma HbA1c. Dyslipidaemia defined by low HDL cholesterol and high triglyceride levels was more prevalent. Furthermore, the prevalence of diabetes and cardiovascular disease was higher in subjects within the lowest tertile. It is worth noting that subjects with high and low plasma lycopene had comparable gender distribution and smoking habits, in contrast to all other carotenoids (Additional file 1: Table S1).
<table-wrap id="Tab1"><label>Table 1</label><caption><p>Characteristics of the study population, including behavioral, physiological, and biochemical variables, plasma carotenoids, immune cell counts, and plasma inflammatory markers</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left"/><th align="left"><bold>Total (</bold><bold><italic>n</italic></bold><bold>&#x02009;=&#x02009;1006)</bold></th><th align="left" colspan="2"><bold>Total carotenoids</bold></th><th align="left"/></tr><tr><th align="left"/><th align="left"/><th align="left">t1 (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;337)</th><th align="left">t3 (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;335)</th><th align="left"><italic>p</italic>-value</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">Carotenoid concentration, &#x000b5;mol/L</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02264;&#x02009;1.277</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;1.857</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Age</td><td align="left">57.2 (53.3&#x02013;60.9)</td><td align="left">58.2 (54.0&#x02013;61.3)</td><td align="left">56.8 (52.8&#x02013;60.7)</td><td align="left">0.046</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Females, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">481 (47.8)</td><td align="left">111 (32.9)</td><td align="left">231 (69.0)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5"><bold>Anthropometry</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Abdominal obesity&#x000a0;<sup>1</sup>, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">667 (66.3)</td><td align="left">293 (86.9)</td><td align="left">155 (46.3)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;BMI, kg m<sup>&#x02212;2</sup></td><td align="left">26.2 (23.9&#x02013;29.1)</td><td align="left">28.6 (25.8&#x02013;31.2)</td><td align="left">24.5 (22.5&#x02013;26.9)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;BMI&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;30&#x000a0;kg&#x000a0;m<sup>&#x02212;2</sup>, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">198 (19.7)</td><td align="left">120 (35.6)</td><td align="left">26 (7.8)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5"><bold>Lifestyle</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Moderate and vigorous physical activity, % of wear time</td><td align="left">6 (4&#x02013;8)</td><td align="left">5 (3&#x02013;7)</td><td align="left">6 (5&#x02013;8)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Sedentary physical activity, % of wear time</td><td align="left">55 (48&#x02013;62)</td><td align="left">57 (49&#x02013;63)</td><td align="left">54 (46&#x02013;60)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Alcohol intake, g/day</td><td align="left">6.0 (2.4&#x02013;10.4)</td><td align="left">6.4 (2.1&#x02013;12.4)</td><td align="left">4.8 (2.2&#x02013;8.4)</td><td align="left">0.003</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Smoker, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">73 (7.3)</td><td align="left">43 (12.9)</td><td align="left">12 (3.6)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5"><bold>Medication (self-reported)</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Antihypertensive, n (%)</td><td align="left">177 (17.6)</td><td align="left">101 (30.0)</td><td align="left">26 (7.8)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Cholesterol-lowering, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">70 (7.0)</td><td align="left">46 (13.6)</td><td align="left">3 (0.9)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5"><bold>Disease status (self-reported)</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Diabetes, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">58 (5.8)</td><td align="left">42 (12.7)</td><td align="left">8 (2.4)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;History of cardiovascular disease <sup>2</sup>, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">28 (2.8)</td><td align="left">20 (5.9)</td><td align="left">2 (0.6)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Inflammatory disease <sup>3</sup>, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">22 (2.2)</td><td align="left">8 (2.4)</td><td align="left">10 (3.0)</td><td align="left">0.642</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Cancer, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">59 (5.9)</td><td align="left">17 (5.0)</td><td align="left">23 (6.9)</td><td align="left">0.338</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5"><bold>Blood pressure</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Systolic, mmHg</td><td align="left">129 (120&#x02013;143)</td><td align="left">135 (124&#x02013;146)</td><td align="left">125 (116&#x02013;139)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Diastolic, mmHg</td><td align="left">82 (76&#x02013;89)</td><td align="left">85 (78&#x02013;91)</td><td align="left">80 (74&#x02013;87)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5"><bold>Clinical chemistry</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Total cholesterol, mmol/L</td><td align="left">5.4 (4.7&#x02013;6.1)</td><td align="left">5.0 (4.3&#x02013;5.7)</td><td align="left">5.8 (5.0&#x02013;6.5)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;LDL cholesterol, mmol/L</td><td align="left">3.2 (2.6&#x02013;3.8)</td><td align="left">3.0 (2.2&#x02013;3.5)</td><td align="left">3.4 (2.8&#x02013;4.1)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;HDL cholesterol, mmol/L</td><td align="left">1.6 (1.3&#x02013;1.9)</td><td align="left">1.4 (1.1&#x02013;1.6)</td><td align="left">1.8 (1.5&#x02013;2.2)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Triglycerides, mmol/L</td><td align="left">1.0 (0.8&#x02013;1.5)</td><td align="left">1.3 (1.0&#x02013;1.9)</td><td align="left">0.9 (0.7&#x02013;1.3)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Glucose, mmol/L</td><td align="left">5.6 (5.3&#x02013;6.0)</td><td align="left">5.8 (5.5&#x02013;6.4)</td><td align="left">5.4 (5.1&#x02013;5.7)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;HbA1c, mmol/mol</td><td align="left">35 (33&#x02013;37)</td><td align="left">35 (33&#x02013;39)</td><td align="left">34 (32&#x02013;36)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5"><bold>Carotenoid levels in plasma</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Total carotenoids, &#x000b5;mol/L</td><td align="left">1.53 (1.13&#x02013;2.05)</td><td align="left">1.00 (0.79&#x02013;1.14)</td><td align="left">2.32 (2.05&#x02013;2.68)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Lutein, &#x000b5;mol/L</td><td align="left">0.27 (0.20&#x02013;0.36)</td><td align="left">0.20 (0.16&#x02013;0.24)</td><td align="left">0.36 (0.30&#x02013;0.44)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x003b2;-cryptoxanthin, &#x000b5;mol/L</td><td align="left">0.14 (0.09&#x02013;0.23)</td><td align="left">0.08 (0.06&#x02013;0.12)</td><td align="left">0.26 (0.17&#x02013;0.36)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Lycopene, &#x000b5;mol/L</td><td align="left">0.51 (0.38&#x02013;0.67)</td><td align="left">0.36 (0.27&#x02013;0.46)</td><td align="left">0.67 (0.55&#x02013;0.81)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x003b1;-carotene, &#x000b5;mol/L</td><td align="left">0.08 (0.04&#x02013;0.13)</td><td align="left">0.04 (0.03&#x02013;0.06)</td><td align="left">0.15 (0.10&#x02013;0.21)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x003b2;-carotene, &#x000b5;mol/L</td><td align="left">0.45 (0.27&#x02013;0.71)</td><td align="left">0.23 (0.16&#x02013;0.32)</td><td align="left">0.81 (0.66&#x02013;1.07)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5"><bold>Immune cell counts</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Leukocytes,&#x000a0;<inline-formula id="IEq1"><alternatives><tex-math id="d33e1005">\documentclass[12pt]{minimal}
				\usepackage{amsmath}
				\usepackage{wasysym} 
				\usepackage{amsfonts} 
				\usepackage{amssymb} 
				\usepackage{amsbsy}
				\usepackage{mathrsfs}
				\usepackage{upgreek}
				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt}
				\begin{document}$${10}^{6}\text{cells/L}$$\end{document}</tex-math><mml:math id="d33e1010"><mml:mrow><mml:msup><mml:mrow><mml:mn>10</mml:mn></mml:mrow><mml:mn>6</mml:mn></mml:msup><mml:mtext>cells/L</mml:mtext></mml:mrow></mml:math><inline-graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4266_Article_IEq1.gif"/></alternatives></inline-formula>
</td><td align="left">5782 (4787&#x02013;6771)</td><td align="left">6116 (5222&#x02013;7297)</td><td align="left">5332 (4530&#x02013;6245)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Lymphocytes,&#x000a0;<inline-formula id="IEq2"><alternatives><tex-math id="d33e1031">\documentclass[12pt]{minimal}
				\usepackage{amsmath}
				\usepackage{wasysym} 
				\usepackage{amsfonts} 
				\usepackage{amssymb} 
				\usepackage{amsbsy}
				\usepackage{mathrsfs}
				\usepackage{upgreek}
				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt}
				\begin{document}$${10}^{6}\text{cells/L}$$\end{document}</tex-math><mml:math id="d33e1036"><mml:mrow><mml:msup><mml:mrow><mml:mn>10</mml:mn></mml:mrow><mml:mn>6</mml:mn></mml:msup><mml:mtext>cells/L</mml:mtext></mml:mrow></mml:math><inline-graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4266_Article_IEq1.gif"/></alternatives></inline-formula>
</td><td align="left">1783 (1468&#x02013;2140)</td><td align="left">1840 (1512&#x02013;2176)</td><td align="left">1685 (1403&#x02013;2071)</td><td align="left">0.013</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Granulocytes,&#x000a0;<inline-formula id="IEq3"><alternatives><tex-math id="d33e1057">\documentclass[12pt]{minimal}
				\usepackage{amsmath}
				\usepackage{wasysym} 
				\usepackage{amsfonts} 
				\usepackage{amssymb} 
				\usepackage{amsbsy}
				\usepackage{mathrsfs}
				\usepackage{upgreek}
				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt}
				\begin{document}$${10}^{6}\text{cells/L}$$\end{document}</tex-math><mml:math id="d33e1062"><mml:mrow><mml:msup><mml:mrow><mml:mn>10</mml:mn></mml:mrow><mml:mn>6</mml:mn></mml:msup><mml:mtext>cells/L</mml:mtext></mml:mrow></mml:math><inline-graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4266_Article_IEq1.gif"/></alternatives></inline-formula>
</td><td align="left">3284 (2616&#x02013;4056)</td><td align="left">3688 (2934&#x02013;4464)</td><td align="left">2916 (2376&#x02013;3684)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Monocytes,&#x000a0;<inline-formula id="IEq4"><alternatives><tex-math id="d33e1083">\documentclass[12pt]{minimal}
				\usepackage{amsmath}
				\usepackage{wasysym} 
				\usepackage{amsfonts} 
				\usepackage{amssymb} 
				\usepackage{amsbsy}
				\usepackage{mathrsfs}
				\usepackage{upgreek}
				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt}
				\begin{document}$${10}^{6}\text{cells/L}$$\end{document}</tex-math><mml:math id="d33e1088"><mml:mrow><mml:msup><mml:mrow><mml:mn>10</mml:mn></mml:mrow><mml:mn>6</mml:mn></mml:msup><mml:mtext>cells/L</mml:mtext></mml:mrow></mml:math><inline-graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4266_Article_IEq1.gif"/></alternatives></inline-formula>
</td><td align="left">375 (307&#x02013;471)</td><td align="left">410 (334&#x02013;517)</td><td align="left">345 (283&#x02013;425)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Natural killer cells, % of lymphocytes</td><td align="left">12 (8&#x02013;16)</td><td align="left">12 (8&#x02013;16)</td><td align="left">12 (8&#x02013;16)</td><td align="left">0.823</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;CD3<sup>+</sup> T cells, % of lymphocytes</td><td align="left">77 (72&#x02013;81)</td><td align="left">77 (71&#x02013;81)</td><td align="left">77 (73&#x02013;81)</td><td align="left">0.752</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;CD4<sup>+</sup> T cells, % of lymphocytes</td><td align="left">50 (44&#x02013;56)</td><td align="left">50 (44&#x02013;56)</td><td align="left">49 (43&#x02013;56)</td><td align="left">0.306</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells, % of lymphocytes</td><td align="left">24 (19&#x02013;31)</td><td align="left">24 (19&#x02013;31)</td><td align="left">24 (19&#x02013;31)</td><td align="left">0.527</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;B cells, % of lymphocytes</td><td align="left">11 (8&#x02013;13)</td><td align="left">11 (8&#x02013;13)</td><td align="left">11 (8&#x02013;14)</td><td align="left">0.833</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5"><bold>Inflammatory markers</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;CRP, mg/L</td><td align="left">0.9 (0.5&#x02013;1.9)</td><td align="left">1.4 (0.6&#x02013;2.7)</td><td align="left">0.7 (0.4&#x02013;1.3)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;IL-6, pg/mL</td><td align="left">1.08 (0.76&#x02013;1.49)</td><td align="left">1.15 (0.83&#x02013;1.56)</td><td align="left">1.04 (0.72&#x02013;1.49)</td><td align="left">0.021</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;IL-18, pg/mL</td><td align="left">343 (263&#x02013;441)</td><td align="left">376 (304&#x02013;482)</td><td align="left">308 (238&#x02013;397)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;MPO, ng/mL</td><td align="left">102 (78&#x02013;137)</td><td align="left">104 (81&#x02013;142)</td><td align="left">99 (76&#x02013;132)</td><td align="left">0.058</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;MMP-9, ng/mL</td><td align="left">54.7 (41.2&#x02013;78.0)</td><td align="left">56 (43&#x02013;80)</td><td align="left">52 (40&#x02013;72)</td><td align="left">0.008</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>Tertiles 1 and 3 were compared using the Mann&#x02013;Whitney <italic>U</italic> test (numerical data) or chi-squared tests (categorical data). Data are given as median (interquartile range) or number (%)</p><p><italic>t1</italic>, tertile 1; <italic>t3</italic>, tertile 3; <italic>BMI</italic>, body mass index; <italic>LDL</italic>, low-density lipoprotein; <italic>HDL</italic>, high-density lipoprotein, <italic>HbA1c</italic>, glycated haemoglobin; <italic>CRP</italic>, C-reactive protein; <italic>IL</italic>, interleukin; <italic>MPO</italic>, myeloperoxidase<italic>; MMP-9</italic>, matrix metalloproteinase-9</p><p><sup>1</sup>Abdominal obesity was defined as having a waist-to-hip ratio&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;0.85 (females) or&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;0.90 (males)</p><p><sup>2</sup>Previous myocardial infarction, stroke, or stable angina</p><p><sup>3</sup>Rheumatoid arthritis or inflammatory bowel disease, including Crohn&#x02019;s disease and ulcerative colitis</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p><p id="Par49">As shown in Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref>, individuals in the lowest tertile of plasma total carotenoids had significantly higher counts of leukocytes, lymphocytes, granulocytes, and monocytes compared to those in the top tertiles, whereas no differences were observed in T cells, T cell subsets, B cells, or NK cells. Also, the levels of soluble inflammatory markers, except MPO, were higher in those with lower levels of total carotenoids; CRP and IL-18 showed the largest differences. When the cohort was stratified in tertiles of individual carotenoids, similar patterns were observed, except for the differences in lymphocyte counts and IL-6 levels, which became less apparent (Additional file 1: Table S3&#x02013;4).</p><p id="Par50">Subjects with lower levels of total carotenoids had lower calculated energy intake as well as lower intake of protein, fiber, and fat. They also had lower intake of vitamins and minerals in general, while they consumed more carbohydrates and saturated fatty acids (Additional file 1: Table S5).</p></sec><sec id="Sec12"><title>Correlations between plasma carotenoids, leukocyte subsets, and soluble inflammatory markers</title><p id="Par51">Tertiles of total and individual carotenoids showed univariate correlations with leukocytes, monocytes, and granulocytes (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001) (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>). Total carotenoids, &#x003b1;- and &#x003b2;-carotene showed weaker but significant associations with lymphocyte counts. However, none of the carotenoids were related to any lymphocyte subsets. Tertiles of total and individual carotenoids also showed univariate correlations to IL-18 and CRP (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001). Total carotenoids, lutein, and &#x003b2;-cryptoxanthin correlated with MMP-9 (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.01), while only lutein correlated with MPO (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.01). None of the carotenoids were significantly related to IL-6.<fig id="Fig1"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;1</label><caption><p>A heatmap indicating the Spearman correlation coefficients between nutritional parameters and counts of leukocyte subtypes and inflammatory markers. Nutritional parameters include plasma carotenoids and estimated dietary intake of macro- and micronutrients derived from food frequency questionnaires. Nutrients that showed no significant correlation with any plasma carotenoid were excluded from this figure. The color gradient reflects the strength and direction of correlations, with blue indicating negative correlations and purple indicating positive correlations. CRP, C-reactive protein; IL, interleukin; MPO, myeloperoxidase; MMP-9, matrix metalloproteinase-9; SFA, saturated fatty acids; MUFA, monounsaturated fatty acids; PUFA, polyunsaturated fatty acids. *** <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001; ** <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.01. <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05 not shown</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4266_Fig1_HTML" id="MO1"/></fig></p></sec><sec id="Sec13"><title>Identification of confounding nutrients</title><p id="Par52">To look for potential confounding nutrients, we analyzed the associations between the estimated intake of main nutrients based on food frequency questionnaires, leukocyte subsets, and inflammatory markers (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>). Although estimated &#x003b2;-carotene intake was significantly correlated with plasma &#x003b2;-carotene levels (<italic>&#x003b2;</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.374, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.001), the strength of correlations generated from estimated nutrient intake was generally lower than correlations from plasma carotenoids. Nevertheless, intakes of fiber and most vitamins and minerals showed inverse correlations with counts of leukocytes and granulocytes, likely reflecting that carotenoid-rich fruits and vegetables contain a wide range of vitamins and minerals. However, no significant inverse correlations were observed between soluble inflammatory markers and estimated nutrient intake, except for total polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) and PUFA subclasses omega-3 and omega-6. Calculated intake of PUFAs was therefore included as a confounding nutrient in the multivariate analysis.</p></sec><sec id="Sec14"><title>Multivariate adjustment models of plasma carotenoids, leukocyte subsets, and soluble inflammatory markers</title><p id="Par53">Additional covariates included in the fully adjusted linear regression model were age, gender, abdominal obesity, plasma total cholesterol, anti-hypertensive medication, smoking status, diabetes mellitus, and levels of moderate and vigorous physical activity. After full adjustments, all individual carotenoids remained significantly related to granulocyte counts (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>A and Additional file 1: Table S6&#x02013;7). Also, all major carotenoids, except for lutein and &#x003b2;-cryptoxanthin, remained significantly associated with total leukocyte and monocyte counts. &#x003b2;-carotene exhibited the strongest inverse relationship with leukocytes and granulocytes, showing reductions of 4.45% and 6.04% per ascending tertile, respectively. &#x003b1;-carotene showed the strongest inverse relationship with monocyte counts. None of the plasma carotenoids correlated with lymphocyte counts after full adjustment.<fig id="Fig2"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;2</label><caption><p>Linear regression models between tertiles of carotenoids and <bold>A</bold> immune cell counts or <bold>B</bold> inflammatory markers. Regression models with inflammatory markers were adjusted for age, gender, total cholesterol, antihypertensive medication, smoking status, abdominal obesity, moderate and vigorous physical activity, self-reported type-2 diabetes, and the proportion of the total daily energy intake from polyunsaturated fat (model 2). Data represents the effect size, which represents the percentage change of the immune cell counts or inflammatory markers with each increasing tertile of carotenoids. All values were log-transformed before regression analysis. Error bars represent the 95% confidence interval. CRP, C-reactive protein; IL, interleukin; MPO, myeloperoxidase; MMP-9, matrix metalloproteinase-9; CI, confidence interval. *** <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001; ** <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.01; * <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4266_Fig2_HTML" id="MO2"/></fig></p><p id="Par54">The same adjustments were made in linear regression models for soluble inflammatory markers (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>B and Additional file 1: Table S8&#x02013;S9). All individual carotenoids remained significantly associated with CRP after full adjustments. The strongest association was seen with total carotenoids and &#x003b2;-carotene; each increasing tertile was associated with a reduction of 20.57% and 21.48%, respectively, in CRP. All individual carotenoids, except lycopene, showed associations with reductions in IL-18 (from 5.08 to 6.41%) with each increasing tertile in full adjustment models. Lutein, &#x003b2;-cryptoxanthin, and &#x003b2;-carotene remained associated with MMP-9 after full adjustments, while only lutein remained associated with MPO. No significant relationships between IL-6 and plasma carotenoids were seen after adjustments.</p></sec><sec id="Sec15"><title>Mediation relationships between circulating carotenoids, leukocyte subsets, and inflammatory markers</title><p id="Par55">As shown in Additional file 1: Fig. S5, the counts of leukocytes, granulocytes as well as monocytes correlated with all inflammatory markers. Total lymphocytes, but not lymphocyte subsets, correlated with CRP, MMP-9, and MPO. Collectively, these findings led us to postulate that the relationships between carotenoids and inflammatory markers could be mediated by counts of leukocytes, lymphocytes, granulocytes, and/or monocytes.</p><p id="Par56">Mediation analyses indicated that the association between total carotenoids and CRP was partially mediated by leukocyte counts, contributing to 15.3% of the effect on CRP. Further dissection of the relationship indicated that this mediation was contributed by granulocytes alone while other cell types either showed insignificant mediation effects or did not qualify to be a mediator (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig3" ref-type="fig">3</xref>A and Additional file 1: Table S10). Deeper analyses indicated that lutein, &#x003b1;- and &#x003b2;-carotene were the main players in the granulocyte-mediated relationship between plasma carotenoids and CRP (Additional file 1: Table S11).<fig id="Fig3"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;3</label><caption><p>Mediation models. <bold>A</bold> The association between total plasma carotenoids as exposure variable (X), CRP as outcome variable (Y), and cell types that qualified for mediation as mediator variables (M). <bold>B</bold> The association between total plasma carotenoids as exposure variable (X), MMP-9 as outcome variable (Y), and granulocytes as mediator variable (M). All regression analyses were conducted on log-transformed variables. The &#x003b2;-coefficient represents the effect size of the regression model. Significant mediation is denoted by # (Bonferroni corrected threshold <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.017). CRP, C-reactive protein; MMP-9, matrix metalloproteinase-9</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4266_Fig3_HTML" id="MO3"/></fig></p><p id="Par57">Furthermore, the mediation analysis showed that the association between total carotenoids and MMP-9 was mediated by granulocyte counts, showing a significant partial mediator effect (70.8% of total effect) (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig3" ref-type="fig">3</xref>B and Additional file 1: Table S10). Among individual carotenoids, lutein and &#x003b2;-cryptoxanthin both contributed to the granulocyte-mediated relationship with MMP-9 (Additional file 1: Table S11). The significant relationship between MPO and lutein was found to be mediated partially by granulocyte counts, contributing to 46.6% of the total effect.</p><p id="Par58">Regarding the relationship between total carotenoids and IL-18, no significant mediation effect was found by total leukocytes or leukocyte subsets (Additional file 1: Table S10).</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec16"><title>Discussion</title><p id="Par59">In the present study, we comprehensively investigated the inter-relationships among five major carotenoids in plasma, circulating leukocyte subsets, and soluble inflammatory markers in a well-characterized middle-aged population-based cohort. The main findings are that all individual carotenoids were independently associated with one leukocyte subset, namely granulocytes, and that granulocyte counts mediated the inverse correlations between carotenoids and two soluble inflammatory markers, CRP and MMP-9.</p><p id="Par60">To our knowledge, this study is the first to investigate the association between plasma carotenoids and leukocyte subsets in a large population-based cohort. Data from previous comparable cohorts have been limited to total leukocyte counts [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>]. One previous study has shown an inverse correlation between plasma &#x003b2;-carotene and neutrophil counts in 40 young male cigarette smokers [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR21">21</xref>]. Also, in a small cohort of patients with coronary artery disease (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;139), lutein and &#x003b2;-cryptoxanthin levels were inversely associated with neutrophil counts [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR22">22</xref>]. As neutrophils comprise the vast majority (90%) of granulocytes in the blood, all associations with granulocyte counts in our study were most likely contributed by neutrophils. This assumption was further supported by the findings that total carotenoids and most individual carotenoids were inversely correlated with MMP-9. The association between carotenoids and MMP-9 in plasma has been reported previously in a minor population-based cohort (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;285) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>]. Neutrophils are known to be a major source of MMP-9 in the circulation [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>]. Accordingly, mediation analyses showed that the relationships between carotenoids and neutrophil-related granule proteins, i.e., MMP-9 and MPO, were partially mediated by counts of granulocytes, further indicating the interdependent relationships of individual carotenoids with granulocyte counts and neutrophil-associated proteins.</p><p id="Par61">Neutrophils are the most abundant leukocytes in humans and the first responders to acute inflammation. Growing evidence suggests that neutrophils contribute significantly to low-grade chronic inflammation and, in turn, increase the risks of many inflammatory age-related diseases. Elevated neutrophil counts were recently proposed as a causal risk factor for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease in general populations, while counts of other immune cells did not show similar associations [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR26">26</xref>]. Elevated neutrophil counts have also been reported to be associated with a negative prognosis in many forms of cancer [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR27">27</xref>]. Interestingly, the potential of carotenoids to modulate the homeostasis of human neutrophils has been proposed. There are multiple pathways postulated to play a role in the inverse relationship between carotenoids and neutrophil numbers. For example, the breakdown products of carotenoids that are generated under oxidative stress have been shown to promote apoptosis in human neutrophils ex vivo [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR28">28</xref>].</p><p id="Par62">A few earlier studies have shown that &#x003b2;-carotene supplementation increases the proliferation of CD4<sup>+</sup> T cells and also increases NK cell activity [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>]. A positive correlation between oxygenated carotenoids, such as lutein and &#x003b2;-cryptoxanthin, and circulating NK cells has also been reported in patients with coronary artery disease [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR22">22</xref>]. However, in this large population-based study, there was no evidence of relationships between plasma carotenoids and counts of lymphocytes or lymphocyte subsets, such as CD4<sup>+</sup> T cells or NK cells.</p><p id="Par63">A recent clinical trial of IL-6 inhibitor on subjects with chronic low-grade inflammation reported dose-dependent reductions of CRP and neutrophil counts as well as dose-dependent increases in lymphocyte counts [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR29">29</xref>]. The relationship between carotenoids and CRP has been documented by a large number of population-based studies [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR31">31</xref>]. Here, we report a mediating role of granulocyte count between plasma carotenoids and CRP. The results emphasize the involvement of the myeloid compartment in chronic low-grade inflammation and also strengthen the hypothesis that carotenoids have a role in this process.</p><p id="Par64">In contrast to CRP and IL-18, the lack of association between carotenoids and IL-6 may be unexpected. The discrepancy is probably explained by the relatively much lower concentrations of IL-6 in plasma, which results in high inter-assay coefficients of variation. Previous population-based studies have also reported inconsistent findings regarding this association between plasma carotenoid levels and IL-6 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR32">32</xref>].</p><p id="Par65">Interestingly, carotenoids in plasma were independently and inversely associated with the inflammasome-mediated product IL-18. This result is in line with previous animal models reporting that carotenoids can directly bind and block inflammasome activity and inhibit IL-18 expression [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR33">33</xref>]. Further studies should be carried out to understand the effects of carotenoids on the human inflammasome. Overall, it is worth noting that no conclusions on the relationships between plasma carotenoids and immune cell function can be drawn from the present results.</p><p id="Par66">One strength of the present study is the combination of absolute measurement of plasma carotenoids and a calculated estimation of nutrient intake using food frequency questionnaires. A number of studies have proposed that anti-inflammatory effects of diets can be attributed to high intake of carotenoid-rich nutrients [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR34">34</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR35">35</xref>]. However, it is important to quantify plasma carotenoids since the dietary intake of a nutrient may not adequately reflect its levels in the circulation due to factors affecting its homeostasis, such as variations in intestinal absorption [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR31">31</xref>]. There are also inherent limitations of food frequency questionnaires, providing estimations of varying reliability [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR36">36</xref>]. This limitation was made apparent by the moderate correlations between estimated &#x003b2;-carotene intake and absolute plasma levels of &#x003b2;-carotene in the present study.</p><p id="Par67">Given the cross-sectional study design, it is not possible to determine a causal relationship between plasma carotenoids and any marker of inflammation. Although the mediation analyses were direction-specific, the cross-sectional study design inherently precludes the confirmation of the directions of the associations presented. Hence, future dietary intervention studies are needed to validate the reported relationships and the directionality of the relationships.</p></sec><sec id="Sec17"><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par68">In conclusion, our findings highlight the role of granulocytes in the association between carotenoids and low-grade inflammation. There is a further need to delineate the underlying mechanism of carotenoids on granulocytes, specifically neutrophils. Future studies should also consider the utility of granulocyte counts to evaluate the anti-inflammatory effects of dietary interventions, in particular carotenoid-rich foods.</p></sec><sec id="Sec40" sec-type="supplementary-material"><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>
<supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM1"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4266_MOESM1_ESM.pdf"><caption><p>Additional file 1: Supplementary methods, Figures S1-5, and Tables S1-11. Figure S1&#x02014;Flow chart of exclusion and inclusion procedures. Figure S2&#x02014;Chromatogram of representative plasma carotenoid profile. Figure S3&#x02014;Gating strategy for absolute cell counts of leukocytes, granulocytes, monocytes, lymphocytes as well as CD3+&#x02009;, CD4+&#x02009;, and CD8+&#x02009;T cells in whole blood. Figure S4&#x02014;Gating strategy for CD16+&#x02009;and CD56&#x02009;+&#x02009;natural killer cells and CD19&#x02009;+&#x02009;B cells in whole blood. Figure S5 &#x02013; Heat map indicating correlations between cells and inflammatory markers. Table S1&#x02014;Behavioral, physiological and biochemical variables across lower (t1) and upper (t3) tertiles of lutein, &#x003b2;-cryptoxanthin, and lycopene in plasma. Table S2&#x02014;Behavioral, physiological and biochemical variables across lower (t1) and upper (t3) tertiles of &#x003b1;-carotene and &#x003b2;-carotene in plasma. Table S3&#x02014;Immune cell counts and levels of inflammatory markers between lower (t1) and upper (t3) tertiles of lutein, &#x003b2;-cryptoxanthin, or lycopene in plasma. Table S4&#x02014;Immune cell counts and levels of inflammatory markers between lower (t1) and upper (t3) tertiles of plasma &#x003b1;-carotene, or &#x003b2;-carotene in plasma. Table S5&#x02014;Nutritional parameters in participants within lower (t1) and upper (t3) tertiles of total plasma levels of carotenoids. Table S6&#x02014;Linear regression models between immune cell counts and total carotenoids, lutein, or &#x003b2;-cryptoxanthin in plasma. Table S7&#x02014;Linear regression models between immune cell counts and lycopene, &#x003b1;-carotene, or &#x003b2;-carotene in plasma. Table S8&#x02014;Linear regression models between inflammatory markers and total carotenoids, lutein, or &#x003b2;-cryptoxanthin in plasma. Table S9&#x02014;Linear regression models between inflammatory markers and lycopene, &#x003b1;-carotene, or &#x003b2;-carotene in plasma. Table S10&#x02014;Mediation analysis between total carotenoids in plasma, inflammatory markers, and immune cell counts. Table S11&#x02014;Mediation analysis between individual plasma carotenoids, inflammatory markers, and granulocyte count.</p></caption></media></supplementary-material></p></sec></body><back><glossary><title>Abbreviations</title><def-list><def-item><term>BMI</term><def><p id="Par5">Body mass index</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CI</term><def><p id="Par6">Confidence interval</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>Cpm</term><def><p id="Par7">Counts per minute</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CRP</term><def><p id="Par8">C-reactive protein</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CV</term><def><p id="Par9">Coefficients of variation</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>E%</term><def><p id="Par10">Percentage of daily energy intake</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>HbA1c</term><def><p id="Par11">Glycated hemoglobin</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>HDL</term><def><p id="Par12">High-density lipoprotein</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>HPLC</term><def><p id="Par13">High-performance liquid chromatography</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>IBD</term><def><p id="Par14">Inflammatory bowel disease</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>IL-6</term><def><p id="Par15">Interleukin-6</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>IL-18</term><def><p id="Par16">Interleukin-18</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>LDL</term><def><p id="Par17">Low-density lipoprotein</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MiniMeal-Q</term><def><p id="Par18">Food-frequency questionnaire Meal-Q</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MMP-9</term><def><p id="Par19">Matrix metalloproteinase-9</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MPO</term><def><p id="Par20">Myeloperoxidase</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MSD</term><def><p id="Par21">Meso Scale Discovery</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MUFA</term><def><p id="Par22">Monounsaturated fatty acids</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>NK</term><def><p id="Par23">Natural killer</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>NQ</term><def><p id="Par24">Not qualified</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PUFA</term><def><p id="Par25">Polyunsaturated fatty acids</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>SCAPIS</term><def><p id="Par26">Swedish CArdioPulmonary bioImage Study</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>SFA</term><def><p id="Par27">Saturated fatty acids</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>t1</term><def><p id="Par28">Terile 1</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>t3</term><def><p id="Par29">Terile 3</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>TNF</term><def><p id="Par30">Tumor necrosis factor</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>VAF</term><def><p id="Par31">Variance accounted for</p></def></def-item></def-list></glossary><fn-group><fn><p><bold>Publisher's Note</bold></p><p>Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.</p></fn></fn-group><ack><title>Acknowledgements
</title><p>We would like to acknowledge the SCAPIS Data Access Board for providing data and samples for protein analysis. We also acknowledge the support of Affinity Proteomics Uppsala at SciLifeLab Sweden for providing assistance in protein analyses, the Department of Clinical Immunology and Transfusion Medicine at Link&#x000f6;ping University Hospital in Sweden for support in counting leukocyte subsets, and Forum &#x000d6;sterg&#x000f6;tland for providing statistical advice.</p></ack><notes notes-type="author-contribution"><title>Authors&#x02019; contributions</title><p>LJ and RWSC performed conceptualization. JN, PL, LJ, RWSC designed the methodology. LJ was responsible for project administration. JN, PL, FHN, and LJ curated data. JN and RWSC performed statistical analyses. JN constructed tables and figures. JN and RWSC wrote the original draft. All authors reviewed and edited the manuscript. LJ, and RWSC provided supervision. FHN, LJ, and RWSC acquired funding.</p></notes><notes notes-type="funding-information"><title>Funding</title><p>Open access funding provided by Link&#x000f6;ping University. Open access funding was provided by Link&#x000f6;ping University. This study was funded by Heart&#x02013;Lung Foundation, Sweden (20180436), Swedish Research Council (2018&#x02013;03232), &#x000c5;ke-Wibergs Foundation (M23-0074), Stina and Birger Johansson Foundation (R&#x000d6;-995110) and CirM strategic research network at Link&#x000f6;ping University.</p><p>CirM strategic research network,&#x000a0;Vetenskapsr&#x000e5;det,&#x000a0;2018-03232,&#x000a0;Hj&#x000e4;rt-Lungfonden,&#x000a0;Sweden,&#x000a0;20180436,&#x000a0;&#x000c5;ke-Wibergs Foundation,&#x000a0;Sweden,&#x000a0;M23-0074,&#x000a0;Stina and Birger Johansson Foundation,&#x000a0;R&#x000d6;-995110,&#x000a0;Link&#x000f6;ping University
</p></notes><notes notes-type="data-availability"><title>Data availability
</title><p>No datasets were generated or analysed during the current study.</p></notes><notes><title>Declarations</title><notes id="FPar1"><title>Ethics approval and consent to participate</title><p id="Par69">The protocol of the study adhered to the ethical guidelines of the 1975 Declaration of Helsinki. The multicenter SCAPIS study was approved by the Ethical Review Board in Ume&#x000e5; University (reference number: 2010&#x02013;228-31&#x000a0;M). The SCAPIS Leukocyte substudy received approval from the Ethical Review Board in Link&#x000f6;ping (reference number: 2020&#x02013;05210) and all study participants gave written informed consent.</p></notes><notes id="FPar2"><title>Consent for publication</title><p id="Par70">Not applicable.</p></notes><notes id="FPar3" notes-type="COI-statement"><title>Competing interests
</title><p id="Par71">The authors declare no competing interests.</p></notes></notes><ref-list id="Bib1"><title>References
</title><ref id="CR1"><label>1.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR1" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Franceschi</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Garagnani</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Parini</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Giuliani</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Santoro</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Inflammaging: a new immune-metabolic viewpoint for age-related diseases</article-title><source>Nat Rev Endocrinol</source><year>2018</year><volume>14</volume><fpage>576</fpage><lpage>590</lpage><?supplied-pmid 30046148?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30046148</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR1" publication-type="journal">Franceschi C, Garagnani P, Parini P, Giuliani C, Santoro A. Inflammaging: a new immune-metabolic viewpoint for age-related diseases. Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2018;14:576&#x02013;90.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30046148</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR2"><label>2.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR2" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Chang</surname><given-names>ST</given-names></name><name><surname>Chuang</surname><given-names>YF</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>AH</given-names></name><name><surname>Fan</surname><given-names>YT</given-names></name><name><surname>Liao</surname><given-names>MR</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>IY</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Age-dependent immune profile in healthy individuals: an original study, systematic review and meta-analysis</article-title><source>Immun Ageing</source><year>2024</year><volume>21</volume><fpage>75</fpage><?supplied-pmid 39472926?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39472926</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR2" publication-type="journal">Chang ST, Chuang YF, Li AH, Fan YT, Liao MR, Chen IY, et al. Age-dependent immune profile in healthy individuals: an original study, systematic review and meta-analysis. Immun Ageing. 2024;21:75.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39472926</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR3"><label>3.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR3" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Tang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Liang</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Fu</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Feng</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The baseline levels and risk factors for high-sensitive C-reactive protein in Chinese healthy population</article-title><source>Immun Ageing</source><year>2018</year><volume>15</volume><fpage>21</fpage><?supplied-pmid 30202420?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30202420</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR3" publication-type="journal">Tang Y, Liang P, Chen J, Fu S, Liu B, Feng M, et al. The baseline levels and risk factors for high-sensitive C-reactive protein in Chinese healthy population. Immun Ageing. 2018;15:21.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30202420</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR4"><label>4.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR4" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Minihane</surname><given-names>AM</given-names></name><name><surname>Vinoy</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Russell</surname><given-names>WR</given-names></name><name><surname>Baka</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Roche</surname><given-names>HM</given-names></name><name><surname>Tuohy</surname><given-names>KM</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Low-grade inflammation, diet composition and health: current research evidence and its translation</article-title><source>Br J Nutr</source><year>2015</year><volume>114</volume><fpage>999</fpage><lpage>1012</lpage><?supplied-pmid 26228057?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26228057</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR4" publication-type="journal">Minihane AM, Vinoy S, Russell WR, Baka A, Roche HM, Tuohy KM, et al. Low-grade inflammation, diet composition and health: current research evidence and its translation. Br J Nutr. 2015;114:999&#x02013;1012.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26228057</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR5"><label>5.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR5" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Hosseini</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Berthon</surname><given-names>BS</given-names></name><name><surname>Saedisomeolia</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Starkey</surname><given-names>MR</given-names></name><name><surname>Collison</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Wark</surname><given-names>PAB</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Effects of fruit and vegetable consumption on inflammatory biomarkers and immune cell populations: a systematic literature review and meta-analysis</article-title><source>Am J Clin Nutr</source><year>2018</year><volume>108</volume><fpage>136</fpage><lpage>155</lpage><?supplied-pmid 29931038?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29931038</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR5" publication-type="journal">Hosseini B, Berthon BS, Saedisomeolia A, Starkey MR, Collison A, Wark PAB, et al. Effects of fruit and vegetable consumption on inflammatory biomarkers and immune cell populations: a systematic literature review and meta-analysis. Am J Clin Nutr. 2018;108:136&#x02013;55.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29931038</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR6"><label>6.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR6" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bohn</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Balbuena</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Ulus</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Iddir</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Crook</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Carotenoids in Health as Studied by Omics-Related Endpoints</article-title><source>Adv Nutr</source><year>2023</year><volume>14</volume><fpage>1538</fpage><lpage>1578</lpage><?supplied-pmid 37678712?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37678712</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR6" publication-type="journal">Bohn T, Balbuena E, Ulus H, Iddir M, Wang G, Crook N, et al. Carotenoids in Health as Studied by Omics-Related Endpoints. Adv Nutr. 2023;14:1538&#x02013;78.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37678712</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR7"><label>7.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR7" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bohn</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Bonet</surname><given-names>ML</given-names></name><name><surname>Borel</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Keijer</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Landrier</surname><given-names>JF</given-names></name><name><surname>Milisav</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Mechanistic aspects of carotenoid health benefits - where are we now?</article-title><source>Nutr Res Rev</source><year>2021</year><volume>34</volume><fpage>276</fpage><lpage>302</lpage><?supplied-pmid 34057057?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34057057</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR7" publication-type="journal">Bohn T, Bonet ML, Borel P, Keijer J, Landrier JF, Milisav I, et al. Mechanistic aspects of carotenoid health benefits - where are we now? Nutr Res Rev. 2021;34:276&#x02013;302.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34057057</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR8"><label>8.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR8" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Erlinger</surname><given-names>TP</given-names></name><name><surname>Guallar</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Miller</surname><given-names>ER</given-names><suffix>3rd</suffix></name><name><surname>Stolzenberg-Solomon</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Appel</surname><given-names>LJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Relationship between systemic markers of inflammation and serum beta-carotene levels</article-title><source>Arch Intern Med</source><year>2001</year><volume>161</volume><fpage>1903</fpage><lpage>1908</lpage><?supplied-pmid 11493133?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">11493133</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR8" publication-type="journal">Erlinger TP, Guallar E, Miller ER 3rd, Stolzenberg-Solomon R, Appel LJ. Relationship between systemic markers of inflammation and serum beta-carotene levels. Arch Intern Med. 2001;161:1903&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">11493133</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR9"><label>9.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR9" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Gruber</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Chappell</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Millen</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>LaRowe</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Moeller</surname><given-names>SM</given-names></name><name><surname>Iannaccone</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Correlates of serum lutein + zeaxanthin: findings from the Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey</article-title><source>J Nutr</source><year>2004</year><volume>134</volume><fpage>2387</fpage><lpage>2394</lpage><?supplied-pmid 15333733?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15333733</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR9" publication-type="journal">Gruber M, Chappell R, Millen A, LaRowe T, Moeller SM, Iannaccone A, et al. Correlates of serum lutein + zeaxanthin: findings from the Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. J Nutr. 2004;134:2387&#x02013;94.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15333733</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR10"><label>10.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR10" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>R&#x000fc;hl</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Effects of dietary retinoids and carotenoids on immune development</article-title><source>Proc Nutr Soc</source><year>2007</year><volume>66</volume><fpage>458</fpage><lpage>469</lpage><?supplied-pmid 17637099?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17637099</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR10" publication-type="journal">R&#x000fc;hl R. Effects of dietary retinoids and carotenoids on immune development. Proc Nutr Soc. 2007;66:458&#x02013;69.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17637099</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR11"><label>11.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR11" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Menni</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Louca</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Berry</surname><given-names>SE</given-names></name><name><surname>Vijay</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Astbury</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Leeming</surname><given-names>ER</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>High intake of vegetables is linked to lower white blood cell profile and the effect is mediated by the gut microbiome</article-title><source>BMC Med</source><year>2021</year><volume>19</volume><fpage>37</fpage><?supplied-pmid 33568158?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33568158</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR11" publication-type="journal">Menni C, Louca P, Berry SE, Vijay A, Astbury S, Leeming ER, et al. High intake of vegetables is linked to lower white blood cell profile and the effect is mediated by the gut microbiome. BMC Med. 2021;19:37.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33568158</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR12"><label>12.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR12" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bergstr&#x000f6;m</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Berglund</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Blomberg</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Brandberg</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Engstr&#x000f6;m</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Engvall</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The Swedish CArdioPulmonary BioImage Study: objectives and design</article-title><source>J Intern Med</source><year>2015</year><volume>278</volume><fpage>645</fpage><lpage>659</lpage><?supplied-pmid 26096600?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26096600</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR12" publication-type="journal">Bergstr&#x000f6;m G, Berglund G, Blomberg A, Brandberg J, Engstr&#x000f6;m G, Engvall J, et al. The Swedish CArdioPulmonary BioImage Study: objectives and design. J Intern Med. 2015;278:645&#x02013;59.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26096600</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR13"><label>13.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR13" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sandstedt</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Chung</surname><given-names>RWS</given-names></name><name><surname>Skoglund</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Lundberg</surname><given-names>AK</given-names></name><name><surname>&#x000d6;stgren</surname><given-names>CJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Ernerudh</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Complete fatty degeneration of thymus associates with male sex, obesity and loss of circulating na&#x000ef;ve CD8(+) T cells in a Swedish middle-aged population</article-title><source>Immun Ageing</source><year>2023</year><volume>20</volume><fpage>45</fpage><?supplied-pmid 37653480?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37653480</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR13" publication-type="journal">Sandstedt M, Chung RWS, Skoglund C, Lundberg AK, &#x000d6;stgren CJ, Ernerudh J, et al. Complete fatty degeneration of thymus associates with male sex, obesity and loss of circulating na&#x000ef;ve CD8(+) T cells in a Swedish middle-aged population. Immun Ageing. 2023;20:45.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37653480</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR14"><label>14.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR14" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Chung</surname><given-names>RWS</given-names></name><name><surname>Leanderson</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Lundberg</surname><given-names>AK</given-names></name><name><surname>Jonasson</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Lutein exerts anti-inflammatory effects in patients with coronary artery disease</article-title><source>Atherosclerosis</source><year>2017</year><volume>262</volume><fpage>87</fpage><lpage>93</lpage><?supplied-pmid 28527371?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28527371</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR14" publication-type="journal">Chung RWS, Leanderson P, Lundberg AK, Jonasson L. Lutein exerts anti-inflammatory effects in patients with coronary artery disease. Atherosclerosis. 2017;262:87&#x02013;93.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28527371</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR15"><label>15.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR15" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Al-Delaimy</surname><given-names>WK</given-names></name><name><surname>van Kappel</surname><given-names>AL</given-names></name><name><surname>Ferrari</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Slimani</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Steghens</surname><given-names>JP</given-names></name><name><surname>Bingham</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Plasma levels of six carotenoids in nine European countries: report from the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC)</article-title><source>Public Health Nutr</source><year>2004</year><volume>7</volume><fpage>713</fpage><lpage>722</lpage><?supplied-pmid 15369608?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15369608</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR15" publication-type="journal">Al-Delaimy WK, van Kappel AL, Ferrari P, Slimani N, Steghens JP, Bingham S, et al. Plasma levels of six carotenoids in nine European countries: report from the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC). Public Health Nutr. 2004;7:713&#x02013;22.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15369608</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR16"><label>16.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR16" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Christensen</surname><given-names>SE</given-names></name><name><surname>M&#x000f6;ller</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Bonn</surname><given-names>SE</given-names></name><name><surname>Ploner</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>B&#x000e4;lter</surname><given-names>O</given-names></name><name><surname>Lissner</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Relative Validity of Micronutrient and Fiber Intake Assessed With Two New Interactive Meal- and Web-Based Food Frequency Questionnaires</article-title><source>J Med Internet Res</source><year>2014</year><volume>16</volume><fpage>e59</fpage><?supplied-pmid 24565605?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24565605</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR16" publication-type="journal">Christensen SE, M&#x000f6;ller E, Bonn SE, Ploner A, B&#x000e4;lter O, Lissner L, et al. Relative Validity of Micronutrient and Fiber Intake Assessed With Two New Interactive Meal- and Web-Based Food Frequency Questionnaires. J Med Internet Res. 2014;16:e59.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24565605</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR17"><label>17.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR17" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ekblom-Bak</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>B&#x000f6;rjesson</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Bergman</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Bergstr&#x000f6;m</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Dahlin-Almevall</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Drake</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Accelerometer derived physical activity patterns in 27.890 middle-aged adults: The SCAPIS cohort study</article-title><source>Scand J Med Sci Sports.</source><year>2022</year><volume>32</volume><fpage>866</fpage><lpage>80</lpage><?supplied-pmid 35080270?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35080270</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR17" publication-type="journal">Ekblom-Bak E, B&#x000f6;rjesson M, Bergman F, Bergstr&#x000f6;m G, Dahlin-Almevall A, Drake I, et al. Accelerometer derived physical activity patterns in 27.890 middle-aged adults: The SCAPIS cohort study. Scand J Med Sci Sports. 2022;32:866&#x02013;80.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35080270</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR18"><label>18.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR18" publication-type="book"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Hayes</surname><given-names>AF</given-names></name></person-group><source>Introduction to mediation, moderation, and conditional process analysis: A regression-based approach</source><year>2013</year><publisher-loc>New York, NY, US</publisher-loc><publisher-name>The Guilford Press</publisher-name></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR18" publication-type="book">Hayes AF. Introduction to mediation, moderation, and conditional process analysis: A regression-based approach. New York, NY, US: The Guilford Press; 2013.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR19"><label>19.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR19" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Valeri</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Vanderweele</surname><given-names>TJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Mediation analysis allowing for exposure-mediator interactions and causal interpretation: theoretical assumptions and implementation with SAS and SPSS macros</article-title><source>Psychol Methods</source><year>2013</year><volume>18</volume><fpage>137</fpage><lpage>150</lpage><?supplied-pmid 23379553?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23379553</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR19" publication-type="journal">Valeri L, Vanderweele TJ. Mediation analysis allowing for exposure-mediator interactions and causal interpretation: theoretical assumptions and implementation with SAS and SPSS macros. Psychol Methods. 2013;18:137&#x02013;50.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23379553</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR20"><label>20.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR20" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sobel</surname><given-names>ME</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Asymptotic Confidence Intervals for Indirect Effects in Structural Equation Models</article-title><source>Sociol Methodol</source><year>1982</year><volume>13</volume><fpage>290</fpage><lpage>312</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR20" publication-type="journal">Sobel ME. Asymptotic Confidence Intervals for Indirect Effects in Structural Equation Models. Sociol Methodol. 1982;13:290&#x02013;312.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR21"><label>21.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR21" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Van Antwerpen</surname><given-names>VL</given-names></name><name><surname>Theron</surname><given-names>AJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Richards</surname><given-names>GA</given-names></name><name><surname>Van der Merwe</surname><given-names>CA</given-names></name><name><surname>Viljoen</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Van der Walt</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Plasma levels of beta-carotene are inversely correlated with circulating neutrophil counts in young male cigarette smokers</article-title><source>Inflammation</source><year>1995</year><volume>19</volume><fpage>405</fpage><lpage>414</lpage><?supplied-pmid 7558246?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">7558246</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR21" publication-type="journal">Van Antwerpen VL, Theron AJ, Richards GA, Van der Merwe CA, Viljoen E, Van der Walt R, et al. Plasma levels of beta-carotene are inversely correlated with circulating neutrophil counts in young male cigarette smokers. Inflammation. 1995;19:405&#x02013;14.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">7558246</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR22"><label>22.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR22" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lidebjer</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Leanderson</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Ernerudh</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Jonasson</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Low plasma levels of oxygenated carotenoids in patients with coronary artery disease</article-title><source>Nutr Metab Cardiovasc Dis</source><year>2007</year><volume>17</volume><fpage>448</fpage><lpage>456</lpage><?supplied-pmid 17134954?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17134954</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR22" publication-type="journal">Lidebjer C, Leanderson P, Ernerudh J, Jonasson L. Low plasma levels of oxygenated carotenoids in patients with coronary artery disease. Nutr Metab Cardiovasc Dis. 2007;17:448&#x02013;56.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17134954</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR23"><label>23.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR23" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ryd&#x000e9;n</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Garvin</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Kristenson</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Leanderson</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Ernerudh</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Jonasson</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Provitamin A carotenoids are independently associated with matrix metalloproteinase-9 in plasma samples from a general population</article-title><source>J Intern Med</source><year>2012</year><volume>272</volume><fpage>371</fpage><lpage>384</lpage><?supplied-pmid 22486775?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22486775</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR23" publication-type="journal">Ryd&#x000e9;n M, Garvin P, Kristenson M, Leanderson P, Ernerudh J, Jonasson L. Provitamin A carotenoids are independently associated with matrix metalloproteinase-9 in plasma samples from a general population. J Intern Med. 2012;272:371&#x02013;84.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22486775</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR24"><label>24.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR24" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Borregaard</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Cowland</surname><given-names>JB</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Granules of the human neutrophilic polymorphonuclear leukocyte</article-title><source>Blood</source><year>1997</year><volume>89</volume><fpage>3503</fpage><lpage>3521</lpage><?supplied-pmid 9160655?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">9160655</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR24" publication-type="journal">Borregaard N, Cowland JB. Granules of the human neutrophilic polymorphonuclear leukocyte. Blood. 1997;89:3503&#x02013;21.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">9160655</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR25"><label>25.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR25" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Fani</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>van der Willik</surname><given-names>KD</given-names></name><name><surname>Bos</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Leening</surname><given-names>MJG</given-names></name><name><surname>Koudstaal</surname><given-names>PJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Rizopoulos</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The association of innate and adaptive immunity, subclinical atherosclerosis, and cardiovascular disease in the Rotterdam Study: A prospective cohort study</article-title><source>PLoS Med</source><year>2020</year><volume>17</volume><fpage>e1003115</fpage><?supplied-pmid 32379748?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32379748</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR25" publication-type="journal">Fani L, van der Willik KD, Bos D, Leening MJG, Koudstaal PJ, Rizopoulos D, et al. The association of innate and adaptive immunity, subclinical atherosclerosis, and cardiovascular disease in the Rotterdam Study: A prospective cohort study. PLoS Med. 2020;17:e1003115.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32379748</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR26"><label>26.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR26" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Luo</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Thomassen</surname><given-names>JQ</given-names></name><name><surname>Nordestgaard</surname><given-names>BG</given-names></name><name><surname>Tybj&#x000e6;rg-Hansen</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Frikke-Schmidt</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Neutrophil counts and cardiovascular disease</article-title><source>Eur Heart J</source><year>2023</year><volume>44</volume><fpage>4953</fpage><lpage>4964</lpage><?supplied-pmid 37950632?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37950632</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR26" publication-type="journal">Luo J, Thomassen JQ, Nordestgaard BG, Tybj&#x000e6;rg-Hansen A, Frikke-Schmidt R. Neutrophil counts and cardiovascular disease. Eur Heart J. 2023;44:4953&#x02013;64.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37950632</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR27"><label>27.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR27" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Uribe-Querol</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Rosales</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Neutrophils in Cancer: Two Sides of the Same Coin</article-title><source>J Immunol Res</source><year>2015</year><volume>2015</volume><fpage>983698</fpage><?supplied-pmid 26819959?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26819959</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR27" publication-type="journal">Uribe-Querol E, Rosales C. Neutrophils in Cancer: Two Sides of the Same Coin. J Immunol Res. 2015;2015: 983698.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26819959</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR28"><label>28.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR28" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Siems</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Capuozzo</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Crif&#x000f2;</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Sommerburg</surname><given-names>O</given-names></name><name><surname>Langhans</surname><given-names>CD</given-names></name><name><surname>Schlipalius</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Carotenoid cleavage products modify respiratory burst and induce apoptosis of human neutrophils</article-title><source>Biochim Biophys Acta</source><year>2003</year><volume>1639</volume><fpage>27</fpage><lpage>33</lpage><?supplied-pmid 12943965?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">12943965</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR28" publication-type="journal">Siems W, Capuozzo E, Crif&#x000f2; C, Sommerburg O, Langhans CD, Schlipalius L, et al. Carotenoid cleavage products modify respiratory burst and induce apoptosis of human neutrophils. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2003;1639:27&#x02013;33.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">12943965</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR29"><label>29.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR29" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Adamstein</surname><given-names>NH</given-names></name><name><surname>Cornel</surname><given-names>JH</given-names></name><name><surname>Davidson</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Libby</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>de Remigis</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Jensen</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association of Interleukin 6 Inhibition With Ziltivekimab and the Neutrophil-Lymphocyte Ratio: A Secondary Analysis of the RESCUE Clinical Trial</article-title><source>JAMA Cardiol</source><year>2023</year><volume>8</volume><fpage>177</fpage><lpage>181</lpage><?supplied-pmid 36449307?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36449307</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR29" publication-type="journal">Adamstein NH, Cornel JH, Davidson M, Libby P, de Remigis A, Jensen C, et al. Association of Interleukin 6 Inhibition With Ziltivekimab and the Neutrophil-Lymphocyte Ratio: A Secondary Analysis of the RESCUE Clinical Trial. JAMA Cardiol. 2023;8:177&#x02013;81.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36449307</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR30"><label>30.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR30" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Suzuki</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Inoue</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Hashimoto</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Ochiai</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Kusuhara</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Ito</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association of serum carotenoids with high molecular weight adiponectin and inflammation markers among Japanese subjects</article-title><source>Clin Chim Acta</source><year>2010</year><volume>411</volume><fpage>1330</fpage><lpage>1334</lpage><?supplied-pmid 20580698?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20580698</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR30" publication-type="journal">Suzuki K, Inoue T, Hashimoto S, Ochiai J, Kusuhara Y, Ito Y, et al. Association of serum carotenoids with high molecular weight adiponectin and inflammation markers among Japanese subjects. Clin Chim Acta. 2010;411:1330&#x02013;4.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20580698</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR31"><label>31.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR31" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Chung</surname><given-names>SJ</given-names></name><name><surname>McCullough</surname><given-names>ML</given-names></name><name><surname>Song</surname><given-names>WO</given-names></name><name><surname>Fernandez</surname><given-names>ML</given-names></name><name><surname>Koo</surname><given-names>SI</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Dietary carotenoids are associated with cardiovascular disease risk biomarkers mediated by serum carotenoid concentrations</article-title><source>J Nutr</source><year>2014</year><volume>144</volume><fpage>1067</fpage><lpage>1074</lpage><?supplied-pmid 24744306?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24744306</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR31" publication-type="journal">Wang Y, Chung SJ, McCullough ML, Song WO, Fernandez ML, Koo SI, et al. Dietary carotenoids are associated with cardiovascular disease risk biomarkers mediated by serum carotenoid concentrations. J Nutr. 2014;144:1067&#x02013;74.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24744306</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR32"><label>32.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR32" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>XR</given-names></name><name><surname>Zou</surname><given-names>ZY</given-names></name><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>YM</given-names></name><name><surname>Xiao</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Ma</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Lin</surname><given-names>XM</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Serum carotenoids in relation to risk factors for development of atherosclerosis</article-title><source>Clin Biochem</source><year>2012</year><volume>45</volume><fpage>1357</fpage><lpage>1361</lpage><?supplied-pmid 22850611?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22850611</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR32" publication-type="journal">Xu XR, Zou ZY, Huang YM, Xiao X, Ma L, Lin XM. Serum carotenoids in relation to risk factors for development of atherosclerosis. Clin Biochem. 2012;45:1357&#x02013;61.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22850611</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR33"><label>33.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR33" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>HE</given-names></name><name><surname>Moon</surname><given-names>SJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Ko</surname><given-names>KM</given-names></name><name><surname>Koh</surname><given-names>JH</given-names></name><name><surname>Seok</surname><given-names>JK</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Direct Binding to NLRP3 Pyrin Domain as a Novel Strategy to Prevent NLRP3-Driven Inflammation and Gouty Arthritis</article-title><source>Arthritis Rheumatol</source><year>2020</year><volume>72</volume><fpage>1192</fpage><lpage>1202</lpage><?supplied-pmid 32134203?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32134203</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR33" publication-type="journal">Yang G, Lee HE, Moon SJ, Ko KM, Koh JH, Seok JK, et al. Direct Binding to NLRP3 Pyrin Domain as a Novel Strategy to Prevent NLRP3-Driven Inflammation and Gouty Arthritis. Arthritis Rheumatol. 2020;72:1192&#x02013;202.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32134203</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR34"><label>34.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR34" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Jahns</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Conrad</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Johnson</surname><given-names>LK</given-names></name><name><surname>Whigham</surname><given-names>LD</given-names></name><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Claycombe-Larson</surname><given-names>KJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>A diet high in carotenoid-rich vegetables and fruits favorably impacts inflammation status by increasing plasma concentrations of IFN-&#x003b1;2 and decreasing MIP-1&#x003b2; and TNF-&#x003b1; in healthy individuals during a controlled feeding trial</article-title><source>Nutr Res</source><year>2018</year><volume>52</volume><fpage>98</fpage><lpage>104</lpage><?supplied-pmid 29551222?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29551222</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR34" publication-type="journal">Jahns L, Conrad Z, Johnson LK, Whigham LD, Wu D, Claycombe-Larson KJ. A diet high in carotenoid-rich vegetables and fruits favorably impacts inflammation status by increasing plasma concentrations of IFN-&#x003b1;2 and decreasing MIP-1&#x003b2; and TNF-&#x003b1; in healthy individuals during a controlled feeding trial. Nutr Res. 2018;52:98&#x02013;104.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29551222</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR35"><label>35.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR35" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ko&#x000f3;s</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Vahid</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Bohn</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Protective effect of provitamin A dietary carotenoid intake on overweight/obesity and their relation to inflammatory and oxidative stress biomarkers - a case-control study</article-title><source>Food Funct</source><year>2024</year><volume>15</volume><fpage>5510</fpage><lpage>5526</lpage><?supplied-pmid 38690968?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38690968</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR35" publication-type="journal">Ko&#x000f3;s N, Vahid F, Bohn T. Protective effect of provitamin A dietary carotenoid intake on overweight/obesity and their relation to inflammatory and oxidative stress biomarkers - a case-control study. Food Funct. 2024;15:5510&#x02013;26.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38690968</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR36"><label>36.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR36" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Christensen</surname><given-names>SE</given-names></name><name><surname>M&#x000f6;ller</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Bonn</surname><given-names>SE</given-names></name><name><surname>Ploner</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Wright</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Sj&#x000f6;lander</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Two New Meal- and Web-Based Interactive Food Frequency Questionnaires: Validation of Energy and Macronutrient Intake</article-title><source>J Med Internet Res</source><year>2013</year><volume>15</volume><fpage>e109</fpage><?supplied-pmid 23739995?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23739995</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR36" publication-type="journal">Christensen SE, M&#x000f6;ller E, Bonn SE, Ploner A, Wright A, Sj&#x000f6;lander A, et al. Two New Meal- and Web-Based Interactive Food Frequency Questionnaires: Validation of Energy and Macronutrient Intake. J Med Internet Res. 2013;15: e109.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23739995</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref></ref-list></back></article>