# The burden of eating disorder risk in Chinese adolescents: prevalence, multilevel correlates, and psychosocial differences in a national study.

<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//NLM//DTD JATS (Z39.96) Journal Archiving and Interchange DTD with MathML3 v1.3 20210610//EN" "JATS-archivearticle1-3-mathml3.dtd"> 
<article xmlns:ali="http://www.niso.org/schemas/ali/1.0/" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" article-type="research-article" dtd-version="1.3"><?properties open_access?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierValue -//Springer-Verlag//DTD A++ V2.4//EN?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierType public?><?SourceDTD.DTDName A++V2.4.dtd?><?SourceDTD.Version 2.4?><?ConverterInfo.XSLTName springer2nlmx2.xsl?><?ConverterInfo.Version 1?><processing-meta base-tagset="archiving" mathml-version="3.0" table-model="xhtml" tagset-family="jats"><restricted-by>pmc</restricted-by></processing-meta><front><journal-meta><journal-id journal-id-type="nlm-ta">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-id journal-id-type="iso-abbrev">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-title-group><journal-title>BMC Medicine</journal-title></journal-title-group><issn pub-type="epub">1741-7015</issn><publisher><publisher-name>BioMed Central</publisher-name><publisher-loc>London</publisher-loc></publisher></journal-meta>
<article-meta><article-id pub-id-type="pmcid">12357332</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="pmid">40817067</article-id>
<article-id pub-id-type="publisher-id">4319</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12916-025-04319-0</article-id><article-categories><subj-group subj-group-type="heading"><subject>Research</subject></subj-group></article-categories><title-group><article-title>The burden of eating disorder risk in Chinese adolescents: prevalence, multilevel correlates, and psychosocial differences in a national study</article-title></title-group><contrib-group><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Bao</surname><given-names>Jiamin</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1"/></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Gan</surname><given-names>Pinky</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1"/></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Feng</surname><given-names>Junkai</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1"/></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Yixuan</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1"/></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Luo</surname><given-names>Yanfeng</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1"/></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Zang</surname><given-names>Yinyin</given-names></name><address><email>Yinyin.Zang@pku.edu.cn</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1"/></contrib><aff id="Aff1"><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/02v51f717</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.11135.37</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 2256 9319</institution-id><institution>School of Psychological and Cognitive Sciences and Beijing Key Laboratory of Behaviour and Mental Health and Key Laboratory of Machine Perception (Ministry of Education), </institution><institution>Peking University, </institution></institution-wrap>No. 5 Yiheyuan Road, Haidian District, Beijing, 100871 China </aff></contrib-group><pub-date pub-type="epub"><day>15</day><month>8</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="pmc-release"><day>15</day><month>8</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="collection"><year>2025</year></pub-date><volume>23</volume><elocation-id>480</elocation-id><history><date date-type="received"><day>6</day><month>2</month><year>2025</year></date><date date-type="accepted"><day>1</day><month>8</month><year>2025</year></date></history><permissions><copyright-statement>&#x000a9; The Author(s) 2025</copyright-statement><copyright-year>2025</copyright-year><license><ali:license_ref specific-use="textmining" content-type="ccbyncndlicense">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ali:license_ref><license-p><bold>Open Access</bold> This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed material. You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/">http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ext-link>.</license-p></license></permissions><abstract id="Abs1"><sec><title>Background</title><p id="Par4">Eating disorders (EDs) are a growing health concern among children and adolescents globally, yet their prevalence and associated factors in China remain underexplored. This study aimed to update epidemiological data on screening-detected EDs and to examine multilevel associated factors in a large, representative sample of Chinese adolescents.</p></sec><sec><title>Methods</title><p id="Par5">Cross-sectional data were drawn from the 2021&#x02013;2022 Child to Adult Mental and Physical Health Study (CAMPS). Using a geographically stratified sampling approach with sample weights calibrated to 2020 Census demographics, we recruited 41,406 adolescents aged 10&#x02013;19 across eastern, central, and western China. Probable EDs were assessed using the SCOFF questionnaire, with clinical significance evaluated through anxiety and depression scales. Psychosocial functioning was compared between adolescents with and without probable EDs. Associated factors spanning individual, family, and regional levels were examined using multivariate logistic regression.</p></sec><sec><title>Results</title><p id="Par6">The prevalence of probable EDs was 21.18% (95% CI: 20.33&#x02013;22.04), decreasing to 11.33% (95% CI: 10.68&#x02013;11.99) when considering clinical significance. Adolescents with probable EDs exhibited significantly poorer psychosocial functioning compared to their peers, including lower academic engagement and higher self-harm, externalizing behaviors, and suicide risk (Cohen&#x02019;s <italic>d</italic>s&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;0.28, <italic>p</italic>s&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001). Being female (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.88, 95% CI: 1.32&#x02013;2.68, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001), having higher BMI (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.02, 95% CI: 1.01&#x02013;1.03, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001), increased mobile phone use (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.06, 95% CI: 1.05&#x02013;1.07, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001), lower familial subjective socioeconomic status (SES) (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.92, 95% CI: 0.89&#x02013;0.96, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001), lower subjective SES in school (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.91, 95% CI: 0.87&#x02013;0.95, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001), and living in less developed regions (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.23, 95% CI: 0.08&#x02013;0.70, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.010) were significantly associated with increased risk of probable EDs. Cohabitating with the father (ORs&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.65 to 0.77, <italic>p</italic>s&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.033) was protective in some provinces.</p></sec><sec><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par7">This study reveals a substantial burden of probable EDs among Chinese adolescents, with weighted prevalence rates comparable to global estimates and markedly higher than a decade ago. These findings underscore the importance of prioritizing EDs as a public health concern in China and advocate for targeted, multilevel interventions that address both individual and socio-ecological associated factors.</p></sec><sec><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12916-025-04319-0.</p></sec></abstract><kwd-group xml:lang="en"><title>Keywords</title><kwd>Eating disorder</kwd><kwd>Epidemiological</kwd><kwd>China</kwd><kwd>Adolescent</kwd><kwd>Prevalence</kwd><kwd>Disordered eating</kwd></kwd-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="FundRef">https://doi.org/10.13039/501100001809</institution-id><institution>National Natural Science Foundation of China</institution></institution-wrap></funding-source><award-id>32371139</award-id></award-group></funding-group><custom-meta-group><custom-meta><meta-name>issue-copyright-statement</meta-name><meta-value>&#x000a9; BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2025</meta-value></custom-meta></custom-meta-group></article-meta></front><body><sec id="Sec1"><title>Background</title><sec id="Sec2"><title>Growing concerns of adolescent EDs</title><p id="Par22">Adolescent eating disorders (EDs) are an urgent and growing public health concern, with 22.36% of children and adolescents worldwide screening positive for probable EDs [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>]. Probable EDs include maladaptive eating attitudes and behaviors, such as strict dieting, binge eating, and self-induced vomiting. They can predict the onset of clinical EDs, and independently increase the risk of overweight, obesity, and depression [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>]. Given the physical and psychological demands of adolescence, disordered eating during this period can cause malnutrition or obesity [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>], stunt growth [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>], and impair cognitive and emotional development [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>], leading to lifelong health consequences.</p></sec><sec id="Sec3"><title>Research gaps in the Chinese context
</title><p id="Par23">Despite their global prevalence and severity, EDs remain under-researched and underfunded worldwide. In high-income countries such as the USA, Canada, and Australia, EDs receive only 1&#x02013;2% of the per capita research funding allocated to schizophrenia [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>], despite causing a comparable or even greater health burden in children and adolescents [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>]. This research disparity is even more pronounced in developing countries such as China. Over the past two decades, China&#x02019;s rapid urbanization and modernization have dramatically reshaped societal norms and cultural values. Concurrently, ED burdens have increased annually, placing China among the countries with the fastest growth rates worldwide [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>]. However, mental health stigma and the historical focus on nutrition over psychological aspects have limited awareness and research on EDs, leaving this critical area significantly underrepresented [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>].</p><p id="Par24">Existing studies on probable ED prevalence among Chinese adolescents have been constrained by small sample sizes or single-school sampling [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>]. Multi-region sampling efforts, while valuable, are outdated, conducted over 10&#x000a0;years ago [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>]. Given China&#x02019;s vast geographical expanse and significant socioeconomic disparities between regions, multi-region sampling is crucial for capturing the true diversity of probable ED prevalence and associated factors across different developmental contexts. Updated, large-scale research is urgently needed to inform public health policy, allocate resources effectively, and develop targeted mental health interventions for adolescents in China.</p></sec><sec id="Sec4"><title>Multilevel influences of probable EDs</title><p id="Par25">In addition to understanding prevalence, identifying and addressing multilevel associated factors is also critical. According to the Dahlgren-Whitehead model of social determinants [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>], youth eating behaviors are influenced by multilevel factors, including individual traits, family- and school-level factors, and broader social conditions. Individual characteristics such as gender [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>] and higher body mass index (BMI) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>] are associated with ED symptoms. With technological advances, problematic media use, such as excessive mobile phone use, has also emerged as a predictor of ED symptoms [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>].</p><p id="Par26">Family and school environments are pivotal in shaping adolescent behavior. Socioeconomic status (SES) of an adolescent, including both family SES and adolescents&#x02019; perceived SES within school, has long been associated with EDs. These disorders were once stereotypically believed to primarily affect affluent populations [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>]. However, recent studies challenge this assumption [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>], suggesting that EDs are not confined to higher SES groups alone and may be increasingly prevalent across SES levels. Additionally, China&#x02019;s rapid urbanization and shifting family dynamics, such as rising divorce rates and parents working away from home, have changed adolescents&#x02019; co-residing family members, which may weaken family support and affect adolescent mental health. Furthermore, regional development levels measured by the Human Development Index (HDI) are also associated with EDs, with higher-developed areas showing a greater ED burden [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>]. Given the vast regional disparities in China, it is crucial to examine how these developmental differences may be associated with probable EDs across provinces.</p></sec><sec id="Sec5"><title>Study aims</title><p id="Par27">In summary, this study aims to update probable ED prevalence among Chinese adolescents and examine multilevel associated factors within a shifting socioeconomic landscape. To address potential false-positive results, we adjusted prevalence estimates for clinical significance by distinguishing cases with notable distress [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>], thereby offering a more accurate representation of ED burden. Additionally, we conducted a comparative analysis of psychosocial functioning between adolescents with and without probable EDs. By clarifying the scope and burden of probable EDs in this rapidly evolving context, we intend to guide targeted interventions, inform resource allocation, and contribute to a broader understanding of youth mental health in global public health.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec6"><title>Methods</title><sec id="Sec7"><title>Study design</title><p id="Par28">Data were obtained from the Child to Adult Mental and Physical Health Study (CAMPS), a national cohort study registered under clinicaltrials.gov (NCT05621278). Seven capital cities across China were selected to reflect diverse urbanization and geographical regions, with intentional oversampling in less populated areas to ensure reliable estimates across economic levels. Schools were recruited through partnerships with local education authorities, including full cooperation from the Education Bureau in Inner Mongolia. All students in participating schools were eligible except when schools opted to exclude specific groups (e.g., college entrance examination candidates). Given China&#x02019;s high school attendance rate (91.0% in 2020) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>], this school-based sampling approach captured a substantial portion of the target adolescent population.</p><p id="Par29">Data were collected via online questionnaires (except one school using paper format), completed at home or during school hours. Both students and parents received instructions for questionnaire completion. Schools received anonymized mental health reports post-survey. Participation was voluntary, with active consent from schools and students, and passive parental consent (opt-out option). The Ethics Committee Board of the School of Psychological and Cognitive Sciences, Peking University, approved the study.</p></sec><sec id="Sec8"><title>Sample</title><p id="Par30">This study adhered to the Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (STROBE) guidelines (Additional file 1: eTable 1) and utilized a stratified sampling design. Data were derived from the 2021&#x02013;2022 CAMPS dataset, which included 41,406 adolescents assessed for probable EDs. The participants were from five provinces&#x02014;Jiangsu and Fujian (eastern China), Henan (central China), and Inner Mongolia and Guizhou (western China)&#x02014;spanning regions with diverse levels of economic development (Additional file 1: eTable 2). To enhance representativeness, sampling weights were applied, accounting for provincial population size and gender distribution of adolescents aged 10 to 19, as aligned with the 2020 Census [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>]. Inclusion criteria required valid responses for gender and age, an age range of 10&#x02013;19&#x000a0;years, and consent to participate. Cases with missing data on ED pathology (0.44%) were excluded.</p></sec><sec id="Sec9"><title>Measures</title><sec id="Sec10"><title>Eating disorder pathology</title><p id="Par31">The ED pathology was measured using the Chinese version of the SCOFF (Sick, Control, One, Fat, and Food) questionnaire [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR21">21</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR22">22</xref>], a widely used ED screening tool among adolescents [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>]. The SCOFF assesses core features of EDs with only five items, including intentional vomiting, losing control over food, weight loss, body dissatisfaction, and food intrusive thoughts.</p><p id="Par32">The brevity and ease of implementation make SCOFF an ideal tool for large-scale surveys in the general population, such as the CAMPS study, where comprehensive clinical assessments are often not feasible [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>]. As one of the most widely used tools [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>], its use strengthens the comparability of our findings with previous prevalence research. The SCOFF has demonstrated strong diagnostic accuracy for DSM-5 eating disorders in young people, with a pooled sensitivity of 0.86 and specificity of 0.83 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>]. The Chinese version has shown acceptable psychometric properties in adolescents [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR22">22</xref>].</p><p id="Par33">Individuals were defined as having probable EDs if they endorsed at least two of the five SCOFF items [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR22">22</xref>]. Symptom subtypes were derived using a previously established algorithm by Yao et al. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>], including (i) anorexia nervosa (AN)-like pattern: endorsement of weight loss and body dissatisfaction; (ii) bulimia nervosa (BN)-like pattern: endorsement of intentional vomiting and losing control over food; and (iii) binge-eating disorder (BED)-like pattern: characterized by losing control over food and intrusive food-related thoughts in the absence of vomiting. Subtype assignment followed a hierarchical structure (AN&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;BN&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;BED) to avoid overlap. Notably, these classifications reflect symptom profiles rather than formal clinical diagnoses. As the validity of these subtype classifications has not been fully established, findings should be interpreted with appropriate caution.</p></sec><sec id="Sec11"><title>Clinical significance</title><p id="Par34">Consistent with previous studies [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>], anxiety and depression were used as indicators of clinically significant distress. Anxiety was assessed by the Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7-item scale (GAD-7) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>], and depression by the Children&#x02019;s Depression Inventory (CDI) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR26">26</xref>], with higher scores reflecting greater severity. The Chinese versions of GAD-7 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR27">27</xref>] and CDI [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR28">28</xref>] have demonstrated good reliability and validity among adolescents [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR28">28</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR29">29</xref>]. The current Cronbach&#x02019;s <italic>&#x003b1;</italic> of GAD-7 and CDI were 0.944 and 0.884, respectively.<xref ref-type="fn" rid="Fn1">1</xref> Participants with probable EDs were classified as experiencing clinically significant ED symptoms if their GAD-7 score was&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;7 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>] and/or their CDI score was&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;20 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec12"><title>Psychosocial functioning</title><p id="Par35">Four indicators were utilized to explore psychosocial differences associated with probable EDs: (1) self-harm behaviors, (2) suicide risk, (3) academic engagement, and (4) externalizing behaviors.</p><p id="Par36">Self-harm was measured with a single item (&#x0201c;Have you ever hurt yourself on purpose?&#x0201d;), using a binary response format (0&#x02009;=&#x02009;&#x0201c;No,&#x0201d; 1&#x02009;=&#x02009;&#x0201c;Yes&#x0201d;). Suicide risk was assessed using the first item of the Suicidal Behaviours Questionnaire-Revised (SBQ-R) Chinese version [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR31">31</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR32">32</xref>]: &#x0201c;Have you ever thought about or attempted to kill yourself?&#x0201d;. Responses were scored on a 1&#x02013;4 scale: (1) never; (2) brief suicidal thoughts; (3) a suicide plan; and (4) a suicide attempt. A score of two or higher indicates elevated suicide risk among adolescents [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR31">31</xref>].</p><p id="Par37">Academic engagement was measured by five items assessing the frequency of homework completion, exam preparation, class attention, participation in learning activities, and class attendance. Responses were rated on a five-point scale from 1 (&#x0201c;Never&#x0201d;) to 5 (&#x0201c;Always&#x0201d;), with higher scores indicating greater engagement. The Cronbach&#x02019;s <italic>&#x003b1;</italic> for this scale was 0.837.</p><p id="Par38">Externalizing behaviors were assessed using three items: &#x0201c;In the past six months, have you ever fought with anyone/lied (excluding jokes and white lies)/stolen anything?&#x0201d;. Responses were rated on a five-point scale from 0 (&#x0201c;Never&#x0201d;) to 4 (&#x0201c;More than 7 times&#x0201d;), with higher scores indicating more externalizing behaviors.</p></sec><sec id="Sec13"><title>Associated factors</title><sec id="FPar1"><title>Individual-level variables</title><p id="Par39">Individual-level variables included gender (0&#x02009;=&#x02009;male, 1&#x02009;=&#x02009;female), age, BMI, and media consumption. BMI was calculated from self-reported height and weight, and then transformed into age- and sex-specific <italic>z</italic>-scores based on Chinese normative data [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR33">33</xref>]. Due to the lack of reference data for 19-year-olds, their values were derived from the 18-year-old reference group. BMI <italic>z</italic>-scores exceeding&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;5 SD (0.72%) were excluded. Media consumption was operationalized as the average daily time spent on mobile phones.</p></sec><sec id="FPar2"><title>Family- and school-level variables</title><p id="Par40">Family-level variables included only child status (0&#x02009;=&#x02009;no, 1&#x02009;=&#x02009;yes), co-residing family members, subjective SES, and parents&#x02019; educational levels. We assessed co-residing family members by inquiring whether adolescents live with the following individuals (0&#x02009;=&#x02009;no, 1&#x02009;=&#x02009;yes): father, mother, paternal grandfather, paternal grandmother, maternal grandfather, and maternal grandmother. Due to high correlations, paternal and maternal grandparents were combined, respectively (paternal:<italic> r</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.641, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001; maternal: <italic>r</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.707, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001). Parents&#x02019; education levels, reported by adolescents, were categorized as below high school (0) or high school and above (1).</p><p id="Par41">Adolescents&#x02019; perceptions of familial SES in society (the society ladder) and their SES within the school community (the school ladder) were measured using the Subjective Socioeconomic Status Scale for Chinese Adolescents [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR34">34</xref>] on a 10-point scale, with higher scores indicating higher SES levels.<xref ref-type="fn" rid="Fn2">2</xref> In this study, the society and school ladders were treated as separate constructs, based on their weak-to-moderate correlation (<italic>r</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.396, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001) and prior evidence that they represent distinct dimensions, each uniquely contributing to health outcomes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR35">35</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="FPar3"><title>Regional variables</title><p id="Par42">The HDI of each province was included in our analysis based on 2017 data [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR36">36</xref>]. The HDI combines life span, education, and income indicators into a composite index, providing a comprehensive measure of regional human development levels.</p></sec></sec></sec><sec id="Sec16"><title>Statistical analysis</title><p id="Par43">To ensure population representativeness, analyses incorporated sampling weights derived from the 2020 Census [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>]. Synthesized weights were calculated by multiplying population size weights (adjusting for provincial sample size disparities) with poststratification weights (adjusting for gender distribution within provinces). All reported results reflect weighted analyses, with province-specific analyses conducted for comparison.</p><p id="Par44">Due to variations in measured variables across provinces, analyses included participants with complete data for relevant measures. Missing data rates were low (0&#x02013;1.8%) except for self-reported height (8.4%). Anxiety and depression scores were imputed using Expectation Maximization to estimate clinically significant prevalence, while listwise deletion was applied for other variables. Detailed missing data patterns are provided in Additional file 1: eTable 3.</p><p id="Par45">The prevalence of overall probable EDs and specific symptom patterns was initially estimated using the SCOFF questionnaire. These estimates were then recalculated applying clinical significance criteria for more conservative estimates, and stratified by gender and age. Psychosocial functioning differences were examined between adolescents with and without probable EDs, with effect sizes evaluated using Cohen&#x02019;s <italic>d</italic> (0.2&#x02009;=&#x02009;small, 0.5&#x02009;=&#x02009;medium, 0.8&#x02009;=&#x02009;large).</p><p id="Par46">For associated factor analysis, we initially used multilevel logistic regression to account for potential provincial differences, but between-province variance was minimal (only 0.36%, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.117). We therefore used a simpler single-level multivariate model [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR37">37</xref>], with probable ED status as the outcome (0&#x02009;=&#x02009;no probable EDs, 1&#x02009;=&#x02009;probable EDs) and age as covariates. Gender interactions with each associated factor were tested and selected using forward stepwise procedures to prevent overfitting. This approach allowed us to identify key gender-specific patterns while maintaining model parsimony. Results are presented as odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals. Statistical significance was set at 0.05 (two-tailed). Weighted analyses were conducted using the R <italic>survey</italic> package [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR38">38</xref>] and other analyses in SPSS 26.0.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec17"><title>Results</title><sec id="Sec18"><title>Participant characteristics</title><p id="Par47">Demographics of the sample are presented in Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref>. Participants had a mean age of 15.12&#x000a0;years (SD&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.62), a mean BMI <italic>z</italic>-score of 0.65&#x000a0;kg/m<sup>2</sup> (SD&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.78), and 46.02% were female. A total of 84.62% of participants had at least one sibling (see Additional file 1: eResult 1 for a discussion indicating minimal familial clustering in our data). Province-specific demographic distributions are shown in Additional file 1: eTable 4.
<table-wrap id="Tab1"><label>Table 1</label><caption><p>Sample characteristics of the weighted sample</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left"/><th align="left"><italic>Mean</italic> (<italic>SD</italic>) or % (<italic>SE</italic>)</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left" colspan="2">Individual level</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Age (years)</td><td align="left">15.12 (1.62)</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="2">&#x02003;Gender, %</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02003;Males</td><td align="left">53.98 (0.52)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02003;Females</td><td align="left">46.02 (0.52)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;BMI <italic>z</italic>-score</td><td align="left">0.65 (1.78)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02009;Mobile phone use time (h/day)</td><td align="left">4.36 (4.15)</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="2">Family and school level</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Only child, %<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02003;No</td><td align="left">84.62 (0.33)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02003;Yes</td><td align="left">15.38 (0.33)</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="2">&#x02003;Paternal education level, %<sup>a</sup></td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02003;Below high school</td><td align="left">64.47 (0.52)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02003;High school or above</td><td align="left">35.53 (0.52)</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="2">&#x02003;Maternal education level, %<sup>a</sup></td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02003;Below high school</td><td align="left">70.82 (0.50)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02003;High school or above</td><td align="left">29.18 (0.50)</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="2">&#x02003;Co-residing family members, %<sup>a</sup></td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02003;Father</td><td align="left">72.71 (0.44)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02003;Mother</td><td align="left">85.44 (0.34)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02003;Paternal grandparents</td><td align="left">44.26 (0.52)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02003;Maternal grandparents</td><td align="left">6.05 (0.24)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Subjective familial SES in society</td><td align="left">5.82 (1.69)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Subjective SES in school</td><td align="left">6.42 (1.86)</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="2">Region level</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02003;HDI<sup>b</sup></td><td align="left">0.73 (0.04)</td></tr></tbody></table></table-wrap></p><p id="Par48"><italic>BMI</italic> body mass index, <italic>HDI</italic> Human Development Index, <italic>SES</italic> socioeconomic status. <sup>a</sup>Proportions reported represent valid responses after excluding missing data. <sup>b</sup>The HDI score ranges from 0 to 1, with higher scores reflecting greater development. The current mean HDI of 0.73 indicates high development [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR26">26</xref>]</p></sec><sec id="Sec19"><title>Prevalence estimates</title><p id="Par49">The estimated prevalences of probable EDs were 21.18% (95% CI: 20.33&#x02013;22.04) in the weighted sample, with 15.99% for boys (95% CI: 14.90&#x02013;17.07) and 27.28% for girls (25.95&#x02013;28.61). In terms of specific probable ED patterns, we detected 2.85% AN-like (95% CI: 2.50&#x02013;3.21), 3.20% BN-like (95% CI: 2.84&#x02013;3.56), and 4.26% BED-like patterns (95% CI: 3.85&#x02013;4.67). Incorporating clinical significance criteria reduced prevalence estimates by about half, to 11.33% (95% CI: 10.68&#x02013;11.99), with similar patterns across provinces and symptom patterns (see Additional file 1: eTable 4).</p><p id="Par50">The prevalence rates of probable EDs by gender across age groups are shown in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>. Chi-square tests revealed no significant differences in raw prevalence across age groups for either gender (<italic>p</italic>s&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;0.296). Applying clinical significance criteria, girls&#x02019; prevalence was significantly lower at ages 10&#x02013;13 compared to ages 14&#x02013;16 (<italic>ps</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.005, age 15 marginally significant with <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.013; Bonferroni corrected <italic>&#x003b1;</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.003). Age-specific prevalence rates of symptom patterns are presented in Additional file 1: eFigure <xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>. Specifically, the raw prevalence of BN-like patterns was significantly lower at age 14 than at ages 17&#x02013;19 among girls (<italic>p</italic>s&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.002).<fig id="Fig1"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;1</label><caption><p>Prevalence of probable eating disorders by age. Error bars indicate 95% confidence intervals. The solid line indicates raw prevalence, while the dashed line represents prevalence estimates with clinical significance</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4319_Fig1_HTML" id="MO1"/></fig></p></sec><sec id="Sec20"><title>Psychosocial differences</title><p id="Par51">Adolescents with probable EDs showed higher levels of externalizing behaviors, self-harm, and suicide risk, as well as lower levels of academic engagement, compared to those without (<italic>p</italic>s&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001, see Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref>). Among those with probable EDs, there were no significant differences in psychosocial functioning across the AN-like, BN-like, and BED-like patterns (Bonferroni-adjusted <italic>p</italic>s&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;0.065).
<table-wrap id="Tab2"><label>Table 2</label><caption><p>Psychosocial characteristics of participants with and without probable EDs</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left"/><th align="left">Adolescents without probable EDs</th><th align="left">Adolescents with probable EDs</th><th align="left"><italic>t</italic>/&#x003c7;<sup>2</sup></th><th align="left">Cohen&#x02019;s <italic>d</italic></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">Academic engagement</td><td align="left">19.68 (4.18)</td><td align="left">18.49 (3.92)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;16.04<sup>***</sup></td><td char="." align="char">0.30</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Externalizing behaviors</td><td align="left">0.82 (1.14)</td><td align="left">1.34 (1.54)</td><td align="left">19.07<sup>***</sup></td><td char="." align="char">0.36</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Self-harm behaviors, % (SE)</td><td align="left">9.32 (0.34)</td><td align="left">28.61 (1.03)</td><td align="left">495.15<sup>***</sup></td><td char="." align="char">0.34</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Suicide risk, % (SE)<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">12.14 (0.49)</td><td align="left">31.12 (1.28)</td><td align="left">263.43<sup>***</sup></td><td char="." align="char">0.28</td></tr></tbody></table></table-wrap></p><p id="Par52"><italic>EDs</italic> eating disorders. <sup>a</sup>Suicide risk was not assessed in Jiangsu Province and was therefore not included in the analysis. <sup>***</sup><italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001. Cohen&#x02019;s <italic>d</italic> indicates effect size: 0.2&#x02009;=&#x02009;small, 0.5&#x02009;=&#x02009;medium, and 0.8&#x02009;=&#x02009;large, providing context for the magnitude of group differences.</p></sec><sec id="Sec21"><title>Associated factors</title><p id="Par53">At the individual level, being female, longer mobile phone usage, and higher BMI <italic>z</italic>-scores were significantly associated with increased risk of probable EDs (female: OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.88, 95% CI&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.32 to 2.68; mobile phone usage: OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.06, 95% CI&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.05 to 1.07; BMI <italic>z</italic>-score: OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.15, 95%CI&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.10 to 1.20). A significant interaction was observed between BMI <italic>z</italic>-scores and gender, with the association being stronger among boys (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.15, 95% CI&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.10 to 1.21) than among girls (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.05, 95% CI&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.00 to 1.10).</p><p id="Par54">At the family and school levels, a higher maternal education level was significantly associated with probable EDs (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.24, 95% CI&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.07 to 1.43). Conversely, higher subjective SES within both the society and school was associated with a decreased likelihood of probable EDs (society: OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.92, 95% CI&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.89 to 0.96; school: OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.91, 95% CI&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.87 to 0.95). At the regional level, a higher HDI was associated with a decreased risk of probable EDs (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.23, 95% CI&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.08 to 0.70) (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>).<fig id="Fig2"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;2</label><caption><p>Forest plots of multivariable logistic regression models. Odds ratios (ORs) were adjusted for age. As BMI was not measured in Jiangsu Province, it was excluded from the multivariable analysis to maximize sample size. Instead, BMI <italic>z</italic>-score and its interaction with gender were analyzed separately in a regression model</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4319_Fig2_HTML" id="MO2"/></fig></p><p id="Par55">To verify the stability of these results, we repeated the analysis separately in the unweighted samples of each province (Additional file 1: eTables 5 and 6). The main findings were generally consistent, with most provinces replicating significant or marginally significant results. However, associations for maternal education were marginally significant in Henan and Guizhou but nonsignificant elsewhere. Importantly, living with one&#x02019;s father showed a significant protective association in several provinces, including Inner Mongolia, Guizhou, and Fujian, reflecting a 23% to 34% lower likelihood of probable EDs (<italic>p</italic>s&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.034).</p><p id="Par56">For specific symptom subtypes, no additional significant factors were identified beyond those linked to overall probable EDs. To maintain clarity and conciseness, detailed findings and discussion are provided in Additional file 1: eTable 7,&#x000a0;eResult 2 and eDiscussion 1.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec22"><title>Discussion</title><p id="Par57">This study provides one of the most comprehensive assessments of probable EDs among Chinese adolescents to date, employing a large-scale, multi-region sampling approach to overcome the regionally constrained limitations of prior research. It reveals a substantial prevalence of probable EDs (21.18%) and highlights associated psychosocial differences, including higher levels of self-harm, externalizing behaviors, and reduced academic engagement. By identifying associated factors across individual, family, and regional levels&#x02014;such as gender, media exposure, BMI <italic>z</italic>-score, cohabitation with the father, perceived social status, and regional development&#x02014;this study underscores the multifactorial and systemic nature of probable EDs. These results highlight an urgent need for targeted, culturally informed public health interventions to address the increasing burden of EDs in China while advancing global understanding of adolescent mental health.</p><sec id="Sec23"><title>Prevalence of probable EDs</title><p id="Par58">The prevalence of probable EDs in our study (21.18%) aligns closely with global estimates (22.36%) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>] and prior rural Chinese studies (28.8%) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>], suggesting shared drivers across cultural contexts. Applying clinical significance criteria reduced the prevalence to 11.33% (1 in 9 adolescents), emphasizing the need to distinguish subclinical symptoms from clinically significant cases. The current prevalence significantly increases from estimates a decade ago (e.g., 7.8% among adolescent females in 2009) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR39">39</xref>]. This rise likely reflects rapid societal changes in China, including urbanization, shifting cultural norms, and rising pressures on adolescents, and aligns with global trends showing the most significant increase in ED incidence among adolescent mental health conditions [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>]. Although the COVID-19 pandemic may have exacerbated these trends through increased screen time and disrupted routines [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR40">40</xref>], the magnitude of the rise points to deeper structural and systemic influences that warrant urgent attention.</p><p id="Par59">Age-related patterns revealed a significantly lower prevalence of probable EDs in early adolescent girls (10&#x02013;13&#x000a0;years) compared to their middle adolescent counterparts (14&#x02013;16&#x000a0;years), with clinical significance criteria applied. This pattern aligns with global findings indicating increased probable EDs during pubertal maturation [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>], likely reflecting the interplay of pubertal development, increased social media exposure, and greater body image concerns during middle adolescence [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR41">41</xref>]. Symptom-specific analyses further showed that BN-like patterns were less common at age 14 than in late adolescence (ages 17&#x02013;19) among girls, indicating continued risk escalation. This escalation corresponds with intensified academic stress during late adolescence (e.g., college entrance exams) that may exacerbate loss-of-control eating [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR42">42</xref>]. Meanwhile, sociocultural pressures surrounding thinness ideals could reinforce compensatory behaviors.</p><p id="Par60">These developmental trajectories underscore the need for stage-specific intervention strategies for girls. In early adolescence (ages 10&#x02013;13), prevention efforts should emphasize resilience-building strategies to mitigate future risks. Transitioning to middle adolescence (ages 14&#x02013;16), interventions should shift toward targeted programs addressing emerging disordered eating behaviors. By late adolescence (ages 17&#x02013;19), increased attention should be directed toward the early detection and intervention of BN-like symptoms. However, as a cross-sectional study, these results should be interpreted cautiously, since age-group differences may reflect cohort effects; younger participants may originally have had higher ED prevalence [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec24"><title>Multilevel associated factors</title><p id="Par61">Gender, BMI, and media use emerged as individual-level factors associated with probable EDs. While girls were more vulnerable (27.28%), boys also exhibited notable prevalence (15.99%), potentially underestimated due to diagnostic insensitivity and societal stereotypes framing EDs as female-specific [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR43">43</xref>]. Media use (e.g., prolonged mobile phone usage) was found to be associated with increased risk of probable EDs, possibly due to exposure to thin-ideal and fitspiration content amplified by social media algorithms [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>], suggesting the need for media literacy programs.</p><p id="Par62">Probable EDs were more prevalent among individuals with higher BMI levels, with this association being stronger in boys than in girls. This gender difference may reflect the stronger impact of perceived weight and body image dissatisfaction relative to actual BMI [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>]. Compared to boys, adolescent girls are more likely to overestimate their body weight [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR44">44</xref>] and experience body dissatisfaction, partly due to pubertal changes that move them further away from culturally idealized thinness [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR45">45</xref>]. Consequently, the association between BMI and probable EDs may be less directly observable among girls. Notably, the relationship between BMI and probable EDs may be bidirectional: while higher BMI can contribute to body dissatisfaction and EDs, certain ED symptoms (e.g., binge eating) can also lead to weight gain [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>]. This complexity highlights the need for nuanced interpretations of BMI-ED associations across genders.</p><p id="Par63">At the family and school level, lower subjective SES was associated with increased risk of probable EDs, consistent with findings among US undergraduates [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>] and broader mental health trends [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR46">46</xref>]. Literature suggests that lower SES is linked to structural barriers, financial hardship, heightened stress, and limited medical resources [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR47">47</xref>], which could potentially contribute to ED development and persistence [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR48">48</xref>]. These results call into question the stereotype that EDs are exclusive to affluent individuals and underscore the need to minimize SES-based biases in screening and prevention.</p><p id="Par64">Higher maternal education was associated with probable EDs only in two less developed provinces characterized by intense academic competition (Henan and Guizhou, with HDI&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;50th percentile). One possible explanation is that in these contexts, higher maternal education may contribute to increased academic pressure or more controlling parenting styles [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>], which could elevate adolescents&#x02019; psychological stress and increase their risk of developing probable EDs.</p><p id="Par65">In addition, cohabiting with the father was negatively associated with probable EDs, potentially due to enhanced family functioning, reduced interpersonal stress [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR49">49</xref>], and the modeling of resilience and self-confidence [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR50">50</xref>], all of which may help adolescents better cope with societal pressures. Similar protective effects have been observed in reducing behavioral problems [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR51">51</xref>]. However, provincial variation, specifically, nonsignificant associations in Henan and Jiangsu, suggests that the benefits of paternal cohabitation may depend not only on physical presence but also on the quality of paternal involvement. For example, in Henan, a Central Plains province heavily influenced by Confucian traditions, paternal roles often emphasize authority and financial provision over emotional caregiving [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR50">50</xref>], potentially limiting their psychological protective effect. Furthermore, the near-universal rate of paternal co-residence in Henan (86%) may reduce variability, making protective effects harder to detect. In contrast, Jiangsu, the province with the lowest paternal co-residence in our sample (53%), also had the highest rate of grandparental co-residence (about 60% vs 30&#x02013;40% in other provinces), which may have partly compensated for the father&#x02019;s absence. Interestingly, maternal presence showed no protective effect, possibly reflecting societal norms viewing maternal care as a baseline expectation rather than an additional protective element. Overall, these findings highlight the unique and context-dependent role of paternal involvement in mitigating the risk of probable EDs, suggesting that promoting meaningful father engagement may enhance prevention and intervention efforts.</p><p id="Par66">At the regional level, higher HDI scores are negatively associated with adolescent probable EDs, contrasting with global trends where ED prevalence increases with HDI until stabilizing at an HDI of 0.6 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>]. All studied Chinese provinces exceed this threshold (HDI: 0.665&#x02013;0.784), suggesting a context-specific relationship. While higher development levels may contribute to probable EDs through increased media exposure and the promotion of Western thinness ideals [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>], they also improve healthcare access, economic stability, and mental health resources, mitigating these risks [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR48">48</xref>]. Shared cultural factors among Chinese individuals, such as family cohesion and communal eating practices, combined with systemic advancements, appear to counterbalance the vulnerabilities associated with regional differences in modernization.</p></sec><sec id="Sec25"><title>Psychosocial differences</title><p id="Par67">Adolescents with probable EDs exhibited impaired functioning across multiple psychosocial domains&#x02014;from academic disengagement to increased externalizing behaviors, self-harm behaviors, and suicide risk. One possible explanation is that probable EDs lead to dysfunction in these areas, or these impairments contribute to the development of ED symptoms. More likely, ED symptoms and psychosocial impairments interact bidirectionally. For example, ED-related malnutrition and cognitive deficits may reduce academic engagement [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR52">52</xref>], while academic difficulties may increase stress and disordered eating behaviors. Alternatively, both ED symptoms and psychosocial difficulties may arise from shared underlying vulnerabilities, such as maladaptive emotion regulation strategies [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR53">53</xref>].</p><p id="Par68">Nevertheless, these findings highlight the overlap between probable EDs and broader mental health challenges, emphasizing the need for integrated interventions targeting co-occurring emotional and behavioral difficulties. Despite the severity of EDs, misconceptions persist, particularly in Asian populations [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR54">54</xref>], where EDs are seen as either rare but severe or common but trivial [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>]. Such misunderstandings perpetuate stigma, delay care, and underscore the need for improved mental health literacy and reduced barriers to intervention.</p></sec><sec id="Sec26"><title>Clinical implications</title><p id="Par69">This study provides critical insights into the prevalence and associated factors of probable EDs among Chinese adolescents, challenging the misconception that EDs are primarily a Western issue [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>]. Aligned with the Healthy China 2030 plan, this study calls for nationwide efforts to improve ED awareness, increase funding for research, and expand prevention and mental health services. Routine screening, as recommended by leading pediatric and adolescent psychiatry organizations [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR55">55</xref>], should be implemented alongside evidence-based interventions, particularly targeting high-risk groups such as female adolescents with high media exposure. As primary points of contact, schools should integrate proactive mental health screenings and comprehensive support systems to facilitate early detection and intervention for probable EDs. These efforts should prioritize addressing systemic factors, such as media influence, while fostering supportive environments that enhance adolescents&#x02019; self-perception and resilience. Public health initiatives should prioritize culturally sensitive, community-based interventions that address family dynamics, societal pressures, and structural inequalities contributing to probable EDs.</p></sec><sec id="Sec27"><title>Limitations</title><p id="Par70">Several limitations of this study warrant acknowledgment. First, the SCOFF questionnaire is less sensitive to conditions like BED [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>]. As a screening tool rather than a diagnostic instrument, it may overestimate true clinical prevalence, and thus, findings should be interpreted with appropriate caution. Nevertheless, SCOFF&#x02019;s brevity makes it well-suited for large-scale epidemiological studies like CAMPS, and its widespread use enhances comparability across studies.</p><p id="Par71">Clinically significant probable EDs were defined as probable EDs accompanied by symptoms of depression and/or anxiety. While this approach has been used in previous research [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>], it may reflect general psychological distress or comorbid psychiatric symptoms rather than distress uniquely attributable to EDs. Future studies would benefit from including measures of ED-specific impairment, such as the Clinical Impairment Assessment [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR56">56</xref>], to enhance the specificity of clinical significance estimates.</p><p id="Par72">The stratified sampling design and weighting approach in CAMPS enhanced regional representation and adjusted for provincial population sizes; however, these methods may have introduced imbalances, limiting the generalizability of the findings. Despite this, the large initial sample (41,406) ensured sufficient statistical power after adjustments. Additionally, some students, particularly those preparing for the college entrance examination, were not surveyed due to scheduling constraints. This subgroup, generally older and under greater academic pressure, may have distinct ED risk profiles. Although the exact proportion excluded is unknown, age-stratified analyses offer some mitigation by providing more granular estimates across age groups.</p><p id="Par73">Another limitation is the missing data on suicide risk and BMI in Jiangsu Province, as these variables were not collected during the initial phase of the CAMPS study. Although this may have introduced bias, consistent findings between provincial-level and weighted-sample analyses suggest minimal impact on overall conclusions. In certain provinces, the number of participating schools was limited (e.g., one in Henan and two in Fujian), preventing the inclusion of school-level effects in multilevel analysis. The lack of available school-level variables further constrained the ability to examine institutional influences on probable EDs.</p><p id="Par74">The cross-sectional design of this study prevents conclusions about the temporal directionality of observed associations. Additionally, some ED behaviors may be transient, particularly during adolescence, as suggested by evidence of spontaneous recovery [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR41">41</xref>]. Longitudinal studies are needed to track symptom trajectories, identify persistent cases, and clarify associated risk and protective factors over time.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec28"><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par75">In conclusion, this study underscores the substantial burden of probable EDs among Chinese adolescents, identifying associated factors. These findings advance understanding of adolescent mental health in China and offer actionable insights to inform targeted interventions, positioning ED as a pressing global public health challenge. Given the cross-sectional design, future longitudinal studies are needed to assess the persistence of symptoms over time and clarify potential causal pathways.</p></sec><sec id="Sec29" sec-type="supplementary-material"><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>
<supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM1"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4319_MOESM1_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Additional file 1: eResults 1 and 2, eDiscussion 1, eTables 1&#x02013;7, and eFigure <xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>. eResult 1 Minimal familial clustering in the sample. eResult 2 Factors associated with specific ED-like symptom patterns. eDiscussion 1 Distinct and shared correlates across ED-like symptom patterns. eTable <xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref> STROBE statement for cross-sectional studies. eTable <xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref> Human Development Index (HDI) in 2017 of the selected provinces. eTable 3 Missing patterns for each variable, no. (%). eTable 4 Sample characteristics by province. eTable 5 Multivariate logistic regressions by province (OR, 95% CI). eTable 6 Significant gender interactions and simple effects by province (OR, 95% CI). eTable 7 Associated factors for specific ED-like subtypes (OR, 95% CI). eFigure <xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref> Raw prevalence and prevalence with clinical significance criteria for (A) AN-like, (B) BN-like, and (C) BED-like patterns by age.</p></caption></media></supplementary-material></p></sec></body><back><glossary><title>Abbreviations</title><def-list><def-item><term>AN</term><def><p id="Par8">Anorexia nervosa</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>BED</term><def><p id="Par9">Binge-eating disorder</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>BMI</term><def><p id="Par10">Body mass index</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>BN</term><def><p id="Par11">Bulimia nervosa</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CAMPS</term><def><p id="Par12">Child to Adult Mental and Physical Health Study</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CDI</term><def><p id="Par13">Children&#x02019;s Depression Inventory</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ED</term><def><p id="Par14">Eating disorder</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>GAD-7</term><def><p id="Par15">Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7-item scale</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>HDI</term><def><p id="Par16">Human Development Index</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>OR</term><def><p id="Par17">Odds ratio</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>SBQ-R</term><def><p id="Par18">Suicidal Behaviours Questionnaire-Revised</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>SCOFF</term><def><p id="Par19">Sick, Control, One, Fat, and Food</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>SES</term><def><p id="Par20">Socioeconomic status</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>STROBE</term><def><p id="Par21">Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology</p></def></def-item></def-list></glossary><fn-group><fn id="Fn1"><label>1</label><p id="Par80">In Jiangsu Province, in accordance with school requirements, the ninth item of the CDI (suicidal ideation) was omitted from the assessment. The score for this item was substituted with the average score of the remaining CDI items.</p></fn><fn id="Fn2"><label>2</label><p id="Par81">In assessment conducted in Henan, Guizhou, and Fujian provinces, response options were erroneously presented on an 11-point scale (0&#x02013;10); these scores were converted to a 10-point scale (1&#x02013;10) using the formula: <italic>y</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;<italic>x</italic>/10*9&#x02009;+&#x02009;1.</p></fn><fn><p><bold>Publisher&#x02019;s Note</bold></p><p>Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.</p></fn></fn-group><ack><title>Acknowledgements</title><p>The authors appreciated all participants and their guardians. The authors also appreciated all staff during the implementation and quality control of the study.</p></ack><notes notes-type="author-contribution"><title>Authors&#x02019; contribution</title><p>YZ is the principal investigator of the CAMPS study and was responsible for funding acquisition and project supervision. JF, PG, YW, and YL assisted in the study design, implementation, and data cleaning of the CAMPS. YZ and JB formulated the research question. JB and PG conducted the data analysis. JB drafted the initial manuscript. JB and YZ revised the manuscript, with YZ providing supervisory oversight and critical editorial input. All authors reviewed and approved the final manuscript.</p></notes><notes notes-type="funding-information"><title>Funding</title><p>This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (grant number: 32371139).</p></notes><notes notes-type="data-availability"><title>Data availability</title><p>The CAMPS dataset is currently being collected, and there are no immediate plans for public release. However, researchers with specific requirements for early access to de-identified participant data may submit a formal request to the corresponding authors for consideration.</p></notes><notes><title>Declarations</title><notes id="FPar4"><title>Ethics approval and consent to participate</title><p id="Par76">The CAMPS study was approved by the Ethics Committee Board of the School of Psychological and Cognitive Sciences, Peking University (approval number: 2021&#x02013;12-09). Active consent from schools and students, as well as passive parental consent, was obtained.</p></notes><notes id="FPar5"><title>Consent for publication</title><p id="Par77">Not applicable.</p></notes><notes id="FPar6" notes-type="COI-statement"><title>Competing interests
</title><p id="Par78">The authors declare no competing interests.
</p></notes></notes><ref-list id="Bib1"><title>References</title><ref id="CR1"><label>1.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR1" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>L&#x000f3;pez-Gil</surname><given-names>JF</given-names></name><name><surname>Garcia-Hermoso</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Smith</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Firth</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Trott</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Mesas</surname><given-names>AE</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Global proportion of disordered eating in children and adolescents: a systematic review and meta-analysis</article-title><source>JAMA Pediatr</source><year>2023</year><volume>177</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>363</fpage><lpage>72</lpage><?supplied-pmid 36806880?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36806880</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR1" publication-type="journal">L&#x000f3;pez-Gil JF, Garcia-Hermoso A, Smith L, Firth J, Trott M, Mesas AE, et al. Global proportion of disordered eating in children and adolescents: a systematic review and meta-analysis. JAMA Pediatr. 2023;177(4):363&#x02013;72.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36806880</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR2"><label>2.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR2" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Herpertz-Dahlmann</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Dempfle</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Konrad</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Klasen</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Ravens-Sieberer</surname><given-names>U</given-names></name><collab>BELLA Study Group</collab></person-group><article-title>Eating disorder symptoms do not just disappear: the implications of adolescent eating-disordered behaviour for body weight and mental health in young adulthood</article-title><source>Eur Child Adolesc Psychiatry</source><year>2015</year><volume>24</volume><fpage>675</fpage><lpage>684</lpage><?supplied-pmid 25209691?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25209691</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR2" publication-type="journal">Herpertz-Dahlmann B, Dempfle A, Konrad K, Klasen F, Ravens-Sieberer U, BELLA Study Group. Eating disorder symptoms do not just disappear: the implications of adolescent eating-disordered behaviour for body weight and mental health in young adulthood. Eur Child Adolesc Psychiatry. 2015;24:675&#x02013;84.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25209691</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR3"><label>3.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR3" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>&#x000d6;zt&#x000fc;rk</surname><given-names>ME</given-names></name><name><surname>Y&#x00131;lmaz</surname><given-names>H&#x000d6;</given-names></name><name><surname>Toka&#x000e7; Er</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Do&#x0011f;an</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Meri&#x000e7;</surname><given-names>&#x000c7;S</given-names></name><name><surname>Yabanc&#x00131;</surname><given-names>AN</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Factors associated with emotional eating in female college students</article-title><source>Nutr Food Sci</source><year>2024</year><volume>54</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>951</fpage><lpage>968</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR3" publication-type="journal">&#x000d6;zt&#x000fc;rk ME, Y&#x00131;lmaz H&#x000d6;, Toka&#x000e7; Er N, Do&#x0011f;an G, Meri&#x000e7; &#x000c7;S, Yabanc&#x00131; AN. Factors associated with emotional eating in female college students. Nutr Food Sci. 2024;54(5):951&#x02013;68.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR4"><label>4.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR4" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Y&#x00131;lmaz</surname><given-names>H&#x000d6;</given-names></name><name><surname>Meri&#x000e7;</surname><given-names>&#x000c7;S</given-names></name><name><surname>&#x000d6;zt&#x000fc;rk</surname><given-names>ME</given-names></name><name><surname>Do&#x0011f;an</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Er</surname><given-names>NT</given-names></name><name><surname>Ayhan</surname><given-names>NY</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Eating behaviors mediate the relationship between perceived stress and anthropometric measurements related to obesity in young adults</article-title><source>Rev Nutr</source><year>2024</year><volume>37</volume><fpage>e230050</fpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR4" publication-type="journal">Y&#x00131;lmaz H&#x000d6;, Meri&#x000e7; &#x000c7;S, &#x000d6;zt&#x000fc;rk ME, Do&#x0011f;an G, Er NT, Ayhan NY. Eating behaviors mediate the relationship between perceived stress and anthropometric measurements related to obesity in young adults. Rev Nutr. 2024;37: e230050.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR5"><label>5.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR5" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kontele</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Vassilakou</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Nutritional risks among adolescent athletes with disordered eating</article-title><source>Children (Basel)</source><year>2021</year><volume>8</volume><issue>8</issue><fpage>715</fpage><?supplied-pmid 34438606?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34438606</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR5" publication-type="journal">Kontele I, Vassilakou T. Nutritional risks among adolescent athletes with disordered eating. Children (Basel). 2021;8(8):715.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34438606</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR6"><label>6.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR6" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bartholdy</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>O&#x02019;Daly</surname><given-names>OG</given-names></name><name><surname>Campbell</surname><given-names>IC</given-names></name><name><surname>Banaschewski</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Barker</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Bokde</surname><given-names>AL</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Neural correlates of failed inhibitory control as an early marker of disordered eating in adolescents</article-title><source>Biol Psychiatry</source><year>2019</year><volume>85</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>956</fpage><lpage>965</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31122340?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31122340</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR6" publication-type="journal">Bartholdy S, O&#x02019;Daly OG, Campbell IC, Banaschewski T, Barker G, Bokde AL, et al. Neural correlates of failed inhibitory control as an early marker of disordered eating in adolescents. Biol Psychiatry. 2019;85(11):956&#x02013;65.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31122340</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR7"><label>7.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR7" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Haynos</surname><given-names>AF</given-names></name><name><surname>Egbert</surname><given-names>AH</given-names></name><name><surname>Fitzsimmons-Craft</surname><given-names>EE</given-names></name><name><surname>Levinson</surname><given-names>CA</given-names></name><name><surname>Schleider</surname><given-names>JL</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Not niche: eating disorders as an example in the dangers of overspecialisation</article-title><source>Br J Psychiatry</source><year>2024</year><volume>224</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>82</fpage><lpage>85</lpage><?supplied-pmid 38097370?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38097370</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR7" publication-type="journal">Haynos AF, Egbert AH, Fitzsimmons-Craft EE, Levinson CA, Schleider JL. Not niche: eating disorders as an example in the dangers of overspecialisation. Br J Psychiatry. 2024;224(3):82&#x02013;5.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38097370</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR8"><label>8.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR8" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Murray</surname><given-names>SB</given-names></name><name><surname>Pila</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Griffiths</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Le Grange</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>When illness severity and research dollars do not align: are we overlooking eating disorders?</article-title><source>World Psychiatry</source><year>2017</year><volume>16</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>321</fpage><?supplied-pmid 28941116?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28941116</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR8" publication-type="journal">Murray SB, Pila E, Griffiths S, Le Grange D. When illness severity and research dollars do not align: are we overlooking eating disorders? World Psychiatry. 2017;16(3):321.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28941116</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR9"><label>9.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR9" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Piao</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Han</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Alarming changes in the global burden of mental disorders in children and adolescents from 1990 to 2019: a systematic analysis for the global burden of disease study</article-title><source>Eur Child Adolesc Psychiatry</source><year>2022</year><volume>31</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>1827</fpage><lpage>1845</lpage><?supplied-pmid 35831670?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35831670</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR9" publication-type="journal">Piao J, Huang Y, Han C, Li Y, Xu Y, Liu Y, et al. Alarming changes in the global burden of mental disorders in children and adolescents from 1990 to 2019: a systematic analysis for the global burden of disease study. Eur Child Adolesc Psychiatry. 2022;31(11):1827&#x02013;45.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35831670</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR10"><label>10.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR10" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Ma</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Trends in the prevalence and disability-adjusted life years of eating disorders from 1990 to 2017: results from the global burden of disease study 2017</article-title><source>Epidemiol Psychiatr Sci</source><year>2020</year><volume>29</volume><fpage>e191</fpage><?supplied-pmid 33283690?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33283690</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR10" publication-type="journal">Wu J, Liu J, Li S, Ma H, Wang Y. Trends in the prevalence and disability-adjusted life years of eating disorders from 1990 to 2017: results from the global burden of disease study 2017. Epidemiol Psychiatr Sci. 2020;29: e191.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33283690</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR11"><label>11.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR11" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Feng</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Abebe</surname><given-names>DS</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Eating behaviour disorders among adolescents in a middle school in Dongfanghong, China</article-title><source>J Eat Disord</source><year>2017</year><volume>5</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>1</fpage><lpage>9</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28053702</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR11" publication-type="journal">Feng T, Abebe DS. Eating behaviour disorders among adolescents in a middle school in Dongfanghong, China. J Eat Disord. 2017;5(1):1&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28053702</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR12"><label>12.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR12" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Yao</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Thornton</surname><given-names>LM</given-names></name><name><surname>Peat</surname><given-names>CM</given-names></name><name><surname>Qi</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Du</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Screen-detected disordered eating and related traits in a large population sample of females in mainland China: China health and nutrition survey</article-title><source>Int J Eat Disord</source><year>2021</year><volume>54</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>24</fpage><lpage>35</lpage><?supplied-pmid 33191528?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33191528</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR12" publication-type="journal">Yao S, Zhang R, Thornton LM, Peat CM, Qi B, Du S, et al. Screen-detected disordered eating and related traits in a large population sample of females in mainland China: China health and nutrition survey. Int J Eat Disord. 2021;54(1):24&#x02013;35.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33191528</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR13"><label>13.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR13" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Jackson</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Prevalence and sociodemographic correlates of eating disorder endorsements among adolescents and young adults from China</article-title><source>Eur Eat Disord Rev</source><year>2008</year><volume>16</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>375</fpage><lpage>385</lpage><?supplied-pmid 17960779?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17960779</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR13" publication-type="journal">Chen H, Jackson T. Prevalence and sociodemographic correlates of eating disorder endorsements among adolescents and young adults from China. Eur Eat Disord Rev. 2008;16(5):375&#x02013;85.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17960779</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR14"><label>14.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR14" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Huon</surname><given-names>GF</given-names></name><name><surname>Mingyi</surname><given-names>Q</given-names></name><name><surname>Oliver</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Xiao</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>A large-scale survey of eating disorder symptomatology among female adolescents in the People&#x02019;s Republic of China</article-title><source>Int J Eat Disord</source><year>2002</year><volume>32</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>192</fpage><lpage>205</lpage><?supplied-pmid 12210662?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">12210662</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR14" publication-type="journal">Huon GF, Mingyi Q, Oliver K, Xiao G. A large-scale survey of eating disorder symptomatology among female adolescents in the People&#x02019;s Republic of China. Int J Eat Disord. 2002;32(2):192&#x02013;205.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">12210662</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR15"><label>15.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR15" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Dahlgren</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Whitehead</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The dahlgren-Whitehead model of health determinants: 30 years on and still chasing rainbows</article-title><source>Public Health</source><year>2021</year><volume>199</volume><fpage>20</fpage><lpage>24</lpage><?supplied-pmid 34534885?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34534885</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR15" publication-type="journal">Dahlgren G, Whitehead M. The dahlgren-Whitehead model of health determinants: 30 years on and still chasing rainbows. Public Health. 2021;199:20&#x02013;4.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34534885</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR16"><label>16.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR16" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ioannidis</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Taylor</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Holt</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Brown</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Lochner</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Fineberg</surname><given-names>NA</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Problematic usage of the internet and eating disorder and related psychopathology: a multifaceted, systematic review and meta-analysis</article-title><source>Neurosci Biobehav Rev</source><year>2021</year><volume>125</volume><fpage>569</fpage><lpage>81</lpage><?supplied-pmid 33713700?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33713700</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR16" publication-type="journal">Ioannidis K, Taylor C, Holt L, Brown K, Lochner C, Fineberg NA, et al. Problematic usage of the internet and eating disorder and related psychopathology: a multifaceted, systematic review and meta-analysis. Neurosci Biobehav Rev. 2021;125:569&#x02013;81.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33713700</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR17"><label>17.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR17" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Goodman</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Heshmati</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Koupil</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Family history of education predicts eating disorders across multiple generations among 2 million Swedish males and females</article-title><source>PLoS One</source><year>2014</year><volume>9</volume><issue>8</issue><fpage>e106475</fpage><?supplied-pmid 25162402?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25162402</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR17" publication-type="journal">Goodman A, Heshmati A, Koupil I. Family history of education predicts eating disorders across multiple generations among 2 million Swedish males and females. PLoS One. 2014;9(8): e106475.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25162402</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR18"><label>18.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR18" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Burke</surname><given-names>NL</given-names></name><name><surname>Hazzard</surname><given-names>VM</given-names></name><name><surname>Schaefer</surname><given-names>LM</given-names></name><name><surname>Simone</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>O&#x02019;Flynn</surname><given-names>JL</given-names></name><name><surname>Rodgers</surname><given-names>RF</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Socioeconomic status and eating disorder prevalence: at the intersections of gender identity, sexual orientation, and race/ethnicity</article-title><source>Psychol Med</source><year>2023</year><volume>53</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>4255</fpage><lpage>4265</lpage><?supplied-pmid 35574702?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35574702</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR18" publication-type="journal">Burke NL, Hazzard VM, Schaefer LM, Simone M, O&#x02019;Flynn JL, Rodgers RF. Socioeconomic status and eating disorder prevalence: at the intersections of gender identity, sexual orientation, and race/ethnicity. Psychol Med. 2023;53(9):4255&#x02013;65.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35574702</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR19"><label>19.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR19" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Mitchison</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Mond</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Bussey</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Griffiths</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Trompeter</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Lonergan</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>DSM-5 full syndrome, other specified, and unspecified eating disorders in Australian adolescents: prevalence and clinical significance</article-title><source>Psychol Med</source><year>2020</year><volume>50</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>981</fpage><lpage>90</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31043181?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31043181</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR19" publication-type="journal">Mitchison D, Mond J, Bussey K, Griffiths S, Trompeter N, Lonergan A, et al. DSM-5 full syndrome, other specified, and unspecified eating disorders in Australian adolescents: prevalence and clinical significance. Psychol Med. 2020;50(6):981&#x02013;90.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31043181</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR20"><label>20.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> UNICEF China, UNFPA. The population status of adolescents in China in 2020: facts and figures. 2023. <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://www.unicef.cn/media/25401/file/The%20Population%20Status%20of%20Adolescents%20in%20China%20in%202020.pdf">https://www.unicef.cn/media/25401/file/The%20Population%20Status%20of%20Adolescents%20in%20China%20in%202020.pdf</ext-link>. Accessed 10 Aug 2024.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR21"><label>21.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR21" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Morgan</surname><given-names>JF</given-names></name><name><surname>Reid</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Lacey</surname><given-names>JH</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The SCOFF questionnaire: assessment of a new screening tool for eating disorders</article-title><source>BMJ</source><year>1999</year><volume>319</volume><issue>7223</issue><fpage>1467</fpage><lpage>1468</lpage><?supplied-pmid 10582927?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">10582927</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR21" publication-type="journal">Morgan JF, Reid F, Lacey JH. The SCOFF questionnaire: assessment of a new screening tool for eating disorders. BMJ. 1999;319(7223):1467&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">10582927</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR22"><label>22.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR22" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Leung</surname><given-names>SF</given-names></name><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>KL</given-names></name><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>SM</given-names></name><name><surname>Leung</surname><given-names>SC</given-names></name><name><surname>Hung</surname><given-names>WS</given-names></name><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>WL</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Psychometric properties of the SCOFF questionnaire (Chinese version) for screening eating disorders in Hong Kong secondary school students: a cross-sectional study</article-title><source>Int J Nurs Stud</source><year>2009</year><volume>46</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>239</fpage><lpage>47</lpage><?supplied-pmid 18945428?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18945428</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR22" publication-type="journal">Leung SF, Lee KL, Lee SM, Leung SC, Hung WS, Lee WL, et al. Psychometric properties of the SCOFF questionnaire (Chinese version) for screening eating disorders in Hong Kong secondary school students: a cross-sectional study. Int J Nurs Stud. 2009;46(2):239&#x02013;47.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18945428</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR23"><label>23.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR23" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kutz</surname><given-names>AM</given-names></name><name><surname>Marsh</surname><given-names>AG</given-names></name><name><surname>Gunderson</surname><given-names>CG</given-names></name><name><surname>Maguen</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Masheb</surname><given-names>RM</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Eating disorder screening: a systematic review and meta-analysis of diagnostic test characteristics of the SCOFF</article-title><source>J Gen Intern Med</source><year>2020</year><volume>35</volume><fpage>885</fpage><lpage>93</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31705473?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31705473</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR23" publication-type="journal">Kutz AM, Marsh AG, Gunderson CG, Maguen S, Masheb RM. Eating disorder screening: a systematic review and meta-analysis of diagnostic test characteristics of the SCOFF. J Gen Intern Med. 2020;35:885&#x02013;93.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31705473</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR24"><label>24.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR24" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Spitzer</surname><given-names>RL</given-names></name><name><surname>Kroenke</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Williams</surname><given-names>JB</given-names></name><name><surname>L&#x000f6;we</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>A brief measure for assessing generalized anxiety disorder: the GAD-7</article-title><source>Arch Intern Med</source><year>2006</year><volume>166</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>1092</fpage><lpage>1097</lpage><?supplied-pmid 16717171?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">16717171</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR24" publication-type="journal">Spitzer RL, Kroenke K, Williams JB, L&#x000f6;we B. A brief measure for assessing generalized anxiety disorder: the GAD-7. Arch Intern Med. 2006;166(10):1092&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">16717171</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR25"><label>25.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR25" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ip</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Suen</surname><given-names>YN</given-names></name><name><surname>Hui</surname><given-names>CLM</given-names></name><name><surname>Wong</surname><given-names>SMY</given-names></name><name><surname>Chan</surname><given-names>SKW</given-names></name><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>EHM</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Assessing anxiety among adolescents in Hong Kong: psychometric properties and validity of the generalised anxiety disorder-7 (GAD-7) in an epidemiological community sample</article-title><source>BMC Psychiatry</source><year>2022</year><volume>22</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>703</fpage><?supplied-pmid 36376799?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36376799</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR25" publication-type="journal">Ip H, Suen YN, Hui CLM, Wong SMY, Chan SKW, Lee EHM, et al. Assessing anxiety among adolescents in Hong Kong: psychometric properties and validity of the generalised anxiety disorder-7 (GAD-7) in an epidemiological community sample. BMC Psychiatry. 2022;22(1):703.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36376799</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR26"><label>26.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR26" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kovacs</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The children&#x02019;s depression inventory (CDI)</article-title><source>Psychopharmacol Bull</source><year>1985</year><volume>21</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>995</fpage><lpage>998</lpage><?supplied-pmid 4089116?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">4089116</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR26" publication-type="journal">Kovacs M. The children&#x02019;s depression inventory (CDI). Psychopharmacol Bull. 1985;21(4):995&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">4089116</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR27"><label>27.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR27" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>He</surname><given-names>XY</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Qian</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Cui</surname><given-names>HS</given-names></name><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>WY</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Reliability and validity of a generalized anxiety disorder scale in general hospital outpatients</article-title><source>Shanghai Arch Psychiatry</source><year>2010</year><volume>22</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>200</fpage><lpage>203</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR27" publication-type="journal">He XY, Li C, Qian J, Cui HS, Wu WY. Reliability and validity of a generalized anxiety disorder scale in general hospital outpatients. Shanghai Arch Psychiatry. 2010;22(4):200&#x02013;3.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR28"><label>28.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR28" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>WF</given-names></name><name><surname>Lu</surname><given-names>YB</given-names></name><name><surname>Tan</surname><given-names>FR</given-names></name><name><surname>Yao</surname><given-names>SQ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Reliability and validity of the Chinese version of children&#x02019;s depression inventory</article-title><source>Chin Ment Health J</source><year>2010</year><volume>24</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>775</fpage><lpage>779</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR28" publication-type="journal">Wu WF, Lu YB, Tan FR, Yao SQ. Reliability and validity of the Chinese version of children&#x02019;s depression inventory. Chin Ment Health J. 2010;24(10):775&#x02013;9.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR29"><label>29.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR29" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sun</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Liang</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Chi</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Psychometric properties of the generalized anxiety disorder scale-7 item (GAD-7) in a large sample of Chinese adolescents</article-title><source>Healthcare</source><year>2021</year><volume>9</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>1709</fpage><?supplied-pmid 34946435?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34946435</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR29" publication-type="journal">Sun J, Liang K, Chi X, Chen S. Psychometric properties of the generalized anxiety disorder scale-7 item (GAD-7) in a large sample of Chinese adolescents. Healthcare. 2021;9(12): 1709.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34946435</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR30"><label>30.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR30" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bang</surname><given-names>YR</given-names></name><name><surname>Park</surname><given-names>JH</given-names></name><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>SH</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Cut-off scores of the children&#x02019;s depression inventory for screening and rating severity in Korean adolescents</article-title><source>Psychiatry Investig</source><year>2015</year><volume>12</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>23</fpage><?supplied-pmid 25670942?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25670942</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR30" publication-type="journal">Bang YR, Park JH, Kim SH. Cut-off scores of the children&#x02019;s depression inventory for screening and rating severity in Korean adolescents. Psychiatry Investig. 2015;12(1):23.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25670942</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR31"><label>31.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR31" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Osman</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Bagge</surname><given-names>CL</given-names></name><name><surname>Gutierrez</surname><given-names>PM</given-names></name><name><surname>Konick</surname><given-names>LC</given-names></name><name><surname>Kopper</surname><given-names>BA</given-names></name><name><surname>Barrios</surname><given-names>FX</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The suicidal behaviors questionnaire-revised (SBQ-R): validation with clinical and nonclinical samples</article-title><source>Assessment</source><year>2001</year><volume>8</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>443</fpage><lpage>454</lpage><?supplied-pmid 11785588?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">11785588</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR31" publication-type="journal">Osman A, Bagge CL, Gutierrez PM, Konick LC, Kopper BA, Barrios FX. The suicidal behaviors questionnaire-revised (SBQ-R): validation with clinical and nonclinical samples. Assessment. 2001;8(4):443&#x02013;54.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">11785588</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR32"><label>32.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR32" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zhu</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The moderating effect of hope on suicide behavior among college students</article-title><source>J East China Normal University (Educational Sciences)</source><year>2021</year><volume>4</volume><fpage>154</fpage><lpage>163</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR32" publication-type="journal">Zhu H, Yang X, Wu R. The moderating effect of hope on suicide behavior among college students. J East China Normal University (Educational Sciences). 2021;4:154&#x02013;63.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR33"><label>33.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR33" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Ji</surname><given-names>CY</given-names></name><name><surname>Zong</surname><given-names>XN</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>YQ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Body mass index growth curves for Chinese children and adolescents aged 0 to 18 years</article-title><source>Chin J Pediatr</source><year>2009</year><volume>47</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>493</fpage><lpage>498</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR33" publication-type="journal">Li H, Ji CY, Zong XN, Zhang YQ. Body mass index growth curves for Chinese children and adolescents aged 0 to 18 years. Chin J Pediatr. 2009;47(7):493&#x02013;8.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR34"><label>34.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR34" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Hu</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Cai</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhu</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Yao</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The application of the subjective socioeconomic status scale in Chinese adolescents</article-title><source>Chin J Clin Psychol</source><year>2012</year><volume>20</volume><fpage>155</fpage><lpage>161</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR34" publication-type="journal">Hu M, Wang M, Cai L, Zhu X, Yao S. The application of the subjective socioeconomic status scale in Chinese adolescents. Chin J Clin Psychol. 2012;20:155&#x02013;61.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR35"><label>35.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR35" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zell</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Strickhouser</surname><given-names>JE</given-names></name><name><surname>Krizan</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Subjective social status and health: a meta-analysis of community and society ladders</article-title><source>Health Psychol</source><year>2018</year><volume>37</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>979</fpage><lpage>987</lpage><?supplied-pmid 30234357?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30234357</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR35" publication-type="journal">Zell E, Strickhouser JE, Krizan Z. Subjective social status and health: a meta-analysis of community and society ladders. Health Psychol. 2018;37(10):979&#x02013;87.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30234357</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR36"><label>36.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> United Nations Development Programme. National human development report 2019: China. New York; 2019. <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://hdr.undp.org/content/national-human-development-report-2019-china">https://hdr.undp.org/content/national-human-development-report-2019-china</ext-link>. Accessed 10 Aug 2024.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR37"><label>37.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR37" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sommet</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Morselli</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Keep calm and learn multilevel linear modeling: a three-step procedure using SPSS, Stata, R, and MPlus</article-title><source>Int Rev Soc Psychol</source><year>2021</year><volume>35</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>203</fpage><lpage>218</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR37" publication-type="journal">Sommet N, Morselli D. Keep calm and learn multilevel linear modeling: a three-step procedure using SPSS, Stata, R, and MPlus. Int Rev Soc Psychol. 2021;35(1):203&#x02013;18.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR38"><label>38.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR38" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Oberski</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Lavaan.survey: an R package for complex survey analysis of structural equation models</article-title><source>J Stat Softw</source><year>2014</year><volume>57</volume><fpage>1</fpage><lpage>27</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25400517</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR38" publication-type="journal">Oberski D. Lavaan.survey: an R package for complex survey analysis of structural equation models. J Stat Softw. 2014;57:1&#x02013;27.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25400517</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR39"><label>39.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR39" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Watson</surname><given-names>HJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Hamer</surname><given-names>RM</given-names></name><name><surname>Thornton</surname><given-names>LM</given-names></name><name><surname>Peat</surname><given-names>CM</given-names></name><name><surname>Kleiman</surname><given-names>SC</given-names></name><name><surname>Du</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Prevalence of screening-detected eating disorders in Chinese females and exploratory associations with dietary practices</article-title><source>Eur Eat Disord Rev</source><year>2015</year><volume>23</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>68</fpage><lpage>76</lpage><?supplied-pmid 25407415?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25407415</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR39" publication-type="journal">Watson HJ, Hamer RM, Thornton LM, Peat CM, Kleiman SC, Du S, et al. Prevalence of screening-detected eating disorders in Chinese females and exploratory associations with dietary practices. Eur Eat Disord Rev. 2015;23(1):68&#x02013;76.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25407415</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR40"><label>40.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR40" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Taquet</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Geddes</surname><given-names>JR</given-names></name><name><surname>Luciano</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Harrison</surname><given-names>PJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Incidence and outcomes of eating disorders during the COVID-19 pandemic</article-title><source>Br J Psychiatry</source><year>2022</year><volume>220</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>262</fpage><lpage>264</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR40" publication-type="journal">Taquet M, Geddes JR, Luciano S, Harrison PJ. Incidence and outcomes of eating disorders during the COVID-19 pandemic. Br J Psychiatry. 2022;220(5):262&#x02013;4.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR41"><label>41.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR41" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Breton</surname><given-names>&#x000c9;</given-names></name><name><surname>Dufour</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>C&#x000f4;t&#x000e9;</surname><given-names>SM</given-names></name><name><surname>Dubois</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Vitaro</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Boivin</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Developmental trajectories of eating disorder symptoms: a longitudinal study from early adolescence to young adulthood</article-title><source>J Eat Disord</source><year>2022</year><volume>10</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>84</fpage><?supplied-pmid 35725645?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35725645</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR41" publication-type="journal">Breton &#x000c9;, Dufour R, C&#x000f4;t&#x000e9; SM, Dubois L, Vitaro F, Boivin M, et al. Developmental trajectories of eating disorder symptoms: a longitudinal study from early adolescence to young adulthood. J Eat Disord. 2022;10(1):84.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35725645</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR42"><label>42.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR42" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lim</surname><given-names>MC</given-names></name><name><surname>Parsons</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Goglio</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Fox</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Anxiety, stress, and binge eating tendencies in adolescence: a prospective approach</article-title><source>J Eat Disord</source><year>2021</year><volume>9</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>94</fpage><?supplied-pmid 34344454?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34344454</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR42" publication-type="journal">Lim MC, Parsons S, Goglio A, Fox E. Anxiety, stress, and binge eating tendencies in adolescence: a prospective approach. J Eat Disord. 2021;9(1):94.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34344454</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR43"><label>43.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR43" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Murray</surname><given-names>SB</given-names></name><name><surname>Nagata</surname><given-names>JM</given-names></name><name><surname>Griffiths</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Calzo</surname><given-names>JP</given-names></name><name><surname>Brown</surname><given-names>TA</given-names></name><name><surname>Mitchison</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The enigma of male eating disorders: a critical review and synthesis</article-title><source>Clin Psychol Rev</source><year>2017</year><volume>57</volume><fpage>1</fpage><lpage>11</lpage><?supplied-pmid 28800416?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28800416</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR43" publication-type="journal">Murray SB, Nagata JM, Griffiths S, Calzo JP, Brown TA, Mitchison D, et al. The enigma of male eating disorders: a critical review and synthesis. Clin Psychol Rev. 2017;57:1&#x02013;11.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28800416</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR44"><label>44.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR44" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bhurtun</surname><given-names>DD</given-names></name><name><surname>Jeewon</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Body weight perception and weight control practices among teenagers</article-title><source>ISRN Nutrition</source><year>2013</year><volume>2013</volume><fpage>2013:395125</fpage><?supplied-pmid 24967256?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24967256</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR44" publication-type="journal">Bhurtun DD, Jeewon R. Body weight perception and weight control practices among teenagers. ISRN Nutrition. 2013;2013: 2013:395125.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24967256</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR45"><label>45.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR45" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Markey</surname><given-names>CN</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Invited commentary: why body image is important to adolescent development</article-title><source>J Youth Adolesc</source><year>2010</year><volume>39</volume><fpage>1387</fpage><lpage>1391</lpage><?supplied-pmid 20339908?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20339908</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR45" publication-type="journal">Markey CN. Invited commentary: why body image is important to adolescent development. J Youth Adolesc. 2010;39:1387&#x02013;91.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20339908</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR46"><label>46.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR46" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>McLaughlin</surname><given-names>KA</given-names></name><name><surname>Costello</surname><given-names>EJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Leblanc</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Sampson</surname><given-names>NA</given-names></name><name><surname>Kessler</surname><given-names>RC</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Socioeconomic status and adolescent mental disorders</article-title><source>Am J Public Health</source><year>2012</year><volume>102</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>1742</fpage><lpage>1750</lpage><?supplied-pmid 22873479?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22873479</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR46" publication-type="journal">McLaughlin KA, Costello EJ, Leblanc W, Sampson NA, Kessler RC. Socioeconomic status and adolescent mental disorders. Am J Public Health. 2012;102(9):1742&#x02013;50.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22873479</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR47"><label>47.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR47" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Steen</surname><given-names>PB</given-names></name><name><surname>Poulsen</surname><given-names>PH</given-names></name><name><surname>Andersen</surname><given-names>JH</given-names></name><name><surname>Biering</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Subjective social status is an important determinant of perceived stress among adolescents: a cross-sectional study</article-title><source>BMC Public Health</source><year>2020</year><volume>20</volume><fpage>1</fpage><lpage>9</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31898494</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR47" publication-type="journal">Steen PB, Poulsen PH, Andersen JH, Biering K. Subjective social status is an important determinant of perceived stress among adolescents: a cross-sectional study. BMC Public Health. 2020;20:1&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31898494</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR48"><label>48.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR48" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Radunz</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Pritchard</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Steen</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Williamson</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Wade</surname><given-names>TD</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Evaluating evidence-based interventions in low socio-economic-status populations</article-title><source>Int J Eat Disord</source><year>2021</year><volume>54</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>1887</fpage><lpage>95</lpage><?supplied-pmid 34405897?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34405897</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR48" publication-type="journal">Radunz M, Pritchard L, Steen E, Williamson P, Wade TD. Evaluating evidence-based interventions in low socio-economic-status populations. Int J Eat Disord. 2021;54(10):1887&#x02013;95.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34405897</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR49"><label>49.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR49" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Rienecke</surname><given-names>RD</given-names></name><name><surname>Trotter</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Jenkins</surname><given-names>PE</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>A systematic review of eating disorders and family functioning</article-title><source>Clin Psychol Rev</source><year>2024</year><volume>112</volume><fpage>102462</fpage><?supplied-pmid 38941693?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38941693</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR49" publication-type="journal">Rienecke RD, Trotter X, Jenkins PE. A systematic review of eating disorders and family functioning. Clin Psychol Rev. 2024;112: 102462.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38941693</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR50"><label>50.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Li X, Lamb ME. Fathering in Chinese culture: traditions and transitions. In: Roopnarine JL, editor. Fathers across cultures: the importance, roles, and diverse practices of dads. Santa Barbara: Praeger/ABC-CLIO; 2015. p. 273&#x02013;306.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR51"><label>51.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR51" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sarkadi</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Kristiansson</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Oberklaid</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Bremberg</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Fathers&#x02019; involvement and children&#x02019;s developmental outcomes: a systematic review of longitudinal studies</article-title><source>Acta Paediatr</source><year>2008</year><volume>97</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>153</fpage><lpage>158</lpage><?supplied-pmid 18052995?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18052995</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR51" publication-type="journal">Sarkadi A, Kristiansson R, Oberklaid F, Bremberg S. Fathers&#x02019; involvement and children&#x02019;s developmental outcomes: a systematic review of longitudinal studies. Acta Paediatr. 2008;97(2):153&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18052995</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR52"><label>52.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR52" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Edwards</surname><given-names>CG</given-names></name><name><surname>Walk</surname><given-names>AM</given-names></name><name><surname>Thompson</surname><given-names>SV</given-names></name><name><surname>Mullen</surname><given-names>SP</given-names></name><name><surname>Holscher</surname><given-names>HD</given-names></name><name><surname>Khan</surname><given-names>NA</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Disordered eating attitudes and behavioral and neuroelectric indices of cognitive flexibility in individuals with overweight and obesity</article-title><source>Nutrients</source><year>2018</year><volume>10</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>1902</fpage><?supplied-pmid 30518029?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30518029</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR52" publication-type="journal">Edwards CG, Walk AM, Thompson SV, Mullen SP, Holscher HD, Khan NA. Disordered eating attitudes and behavioral and neuroelectric indices of cognitive flexibility in individuals with overweight and obesity. Nutrients. 2018;10(12): 1902.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30518029</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR53"><label>53.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR53" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Slane</surname><given-names>JD</given-names></name><name><surname>Burt</surname><given-names>SA</given-names></name><name><surname>Klump</surname><given-names>KL</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The road less traveled: associations between externalizing behaviors and eating pathology</article-title><source>Int J Eat Disord</source><year>2010</year><volume>43</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>149</fpage><lpage>160</lpage><?supplied-pmid 19350646?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">19350646</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR53" publication-type="journal">Slane JD, Burt SA, Klump KL. The road less traveled: associations between externalizing behaviors and eating pathology. Int J Eat Disord. 2010;43(2):149&#x02013;60.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">19350646</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR54"><label>54.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR54" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Nishida-Hikiji</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Okamoto</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Iwanaga</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Nakane</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Tanaka</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Mental health literacy regarding eating disorders in female Japanese university students</article-title><source>Eat Disord</source><year>2021</year><volume>29</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>17</fpage><lpage>28</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31079573?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31079573</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR54" publication-type="journal">Nishida-Hikiji E, Okamoto M, Iwanaga R, Nakane H, Tanaka G. Mental health literacy regarding eating disorders in female Japanese university students. Eat Disord. 2021;29(1):17&#x02013;28.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31079573</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR55"><label>55.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR55" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lock</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>La Via</surname><given-names>MC</given-names></name><collab>American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Committee on Quality Issues</collab></person-group><article-title>Practice parameter for the assessment and treatment of children and adolescents with eating disorders</article-title><source>J Am Acad Child Adolesc Psychiatry</source><year>2015</year><volume>54</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>412</fpage><lpage>25</lpage><?supplied-pmid 25901778?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25901778</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR55" publication-type="journal">Lock J, La Via MC, American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Committee on Quality Issues. Practice parameter for the assessment and treatment of children and adolescents with eating disorders. J Am Acad Child Adolesc Psychiatry. 2015;54(5):412&#x02013;25.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25901778</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR56"><label>56.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR56" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bohn</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Doll</surname><given-names>HA</given-names></name><name><surname>Cooper</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>O&#x02019;Connor</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Palmer</surname><given-names>RL</given-names></name><name><surname>Fairburn</surname><given-names>CG</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The measurement of impairment due to eating disorder psychopathology</article-title><source>Behav Res Ther</source><year>2008</year><volume>46</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>1105</fpage><lpage>10</lpage><?supplied-pmid 18710699?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18710699</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR56" publication-type="journal">Bohn K, Doll HA, Cooper Z, O&#x02019;Connor M, Palmer RL, Fairburn CG. The measurement of impairment due to eating disorder psychopathology. Behav Res Ther. 2008;46(10):1105&#x02013;10.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18710699</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref></ref-list></back></article>