# Identification and validation of an explainable machine learning model for vascular depression diagnosis in the older adults: a multicenter cohort study.

<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//NLM//DTD JATS (Z39.96) Journal Archiving and Interchange DTD with MathML3 v1.3 20210610//EN" "JATS-archivearticle1-3-mathml3.dtd"> 
<article xmlns:ali="http://www.niso.org/schemas/ali/1.0/" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" article-type="research-article" dtd-version="1.3"><?properties open_access?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierValue -//Springer-Verlag//DTD A++ V2.4//EN?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierType public?><?SourceDTD.DTDName A++V2.4.dtd?><?SourceDTD.Version 2.4?><?ConverterInfo.XSLTName springer2nlmx2.xsl?><?ConverterInfo.Version 1?><processing-meta base-tagset="archiving" mathml-version="3.0" table-model="xhtml" tagset-family="jats"><restricted-by>pmc</restricted-by></processing-meta><front><journal-meta><journal-id journal-id-type="nlm-ta">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-id journal-id-type="iso-abbrev">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-title-group><journal-title>BMC Medicine</journal-title></journal-title-group><issn pub-type="epub">1741-7015</issn><publisher><publisher-name>BioMed Central</publisher-name><publisher-loc>London</publisher-loc></publisher></journal-meta>
<article-meta><article-id pub-id-type="pmcid">12315376</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="pmid">40745611</article-id>
<article-id pub-id-type="publisher-id">4283</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12916-025-04283-9</article-id><article-categories><subj-group subj-group-type="heading"><subject>Research</subject></subj-group></article-categories><title-group><article-title>Identification and validation of an explainable machine learning model for vascular depression diagnosis in the older adults: a multicenter cohort study</article-title></title-group><contrib-group><contrib contrib-type="author" equal-contrib="yes"><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Ran</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" equal-contrib="yes"><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>Tian</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Fan</surname><given-names>Fan</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>He</surname><given-names>Haoying</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Lan</surname><given-names>Liuyi</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Sun</surname><given-names>Dong</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>Zhipeng</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Peng</surname><given-names>Sisi</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Cao</surname><given-names>Jing</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>Juan</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Peng</surname><given-names>Xiaoxiang</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Lei</surname><given-names>Ming</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff4">4</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Song</surname><given-names>Hao</given-names></name><address><email>sh494639307@qq.com</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Junjian</given-names></name><address><email>zhangjj@whu.edu.cn</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><aff id="Aff1"><label>1</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/01v5mqw79</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.413247.7</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 1808 0969</institution-id><institution>Department of Neurology, </institution><institution>Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University, </institution></institution-wrap>169 Donghu Road, Wuchang District, Wuhan
, Hubei Province, 430071 China </aff><aff id="Aff2"><label>2</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/01v5mqw79</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.413247.7</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 1808 0969</institution-id><institution>Department of Neuropsychology, </institution><institution>Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University, </institution></institution-wrap>Wuhan, Hubei Province, China </aff><aff id="Aff3"><label>3</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/02xhgjz70</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.477399.7</institution-id><institution>Department of Neurology, </institution><institution>Third People&#x02019;s Hospital of Hubei Province, </institution></institution-wrap>Wuhan, Hubei Province, China </aff><aff id="Aff4"><label>4</label>Department of Neurology, General Hospital of the Yangtze River Shipping, Wuhan, Hubei Province, China </aff></contrib-group><pub-date pub-type="epub"><day>31</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="pmc-release"><day>31</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="collection"><year>2025</year></pub-date><volume>23</volume><elocation-id>448</elocation-id><history><date date-type="received"><day>15</day><month>11</month><year>2024</year></date><date date-type="accepted"><day>15</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></date></history><permissions><copyright-statement>&#x000a9; The Author(s) 2025</copyright-statement><copyright-year>2025</copyright-year><license><ali:license_ref specific-use="textmining" content-type="ccbyncndlicense">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ali:license_ref><license-p><bold>Open Access</bold> This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed material. You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/">http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ext-link>.</license-p></license></permissions><abstract id="Abs1"><sec><title>Background</title><p id="Par8">Vascular depression (VaDep) is a prevalent affective disorder in older adults that significantly impacts functional status and quality of life. Early identification and intervention are crucial but largely insufficient in clinical practice due to inconspicuous depressive symptoms mostly, heterogeneous imaging manifestations, and the lack of definitive peripheral biomarkers. This study aimed to develop and validate an interpretable machine learning (ML) model for VaDep to serve as a clinical support tool.</p></sec><sec><title>Methods</title><p id="Par9">This study included 602 participants from Wuhan in China divided into 236 VaDep patients and 366 controls for training and internal validation from July 2020 to October 2023. An independent dataset of 171 participants from surrounding areas was used for external validation. We collected clinical data, neuropsychological assessments, blood test results, and MRI scans to develop and refine ML models through cross-validation. Feature reduction was implemented to simplify the models without compromising their performance, with validation achieved through internal and external datasets. The SHapley Additive exPlanations method was used to enhance model interpretability.</p></sec><sec><title>Results</title><p id="Par10">The Light Gradient Boosting Machine (LGBM) model outperformed from the selected 6 ML algorithms based on performance metrics. An optimized, interpretable LGBM model with 8 key features, including white matter hyperintensities score, age, vascular endothelial growth factor, interleukin-6, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, tumor necrosis factor-alpha levels, lacune counts, and serotonin level, demonstrated high diagnostic accuracy in both internal (AUROC&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.937) and external (AUROC&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.896) validations. The final model also achieved, and marginally exceeded, clinician-level diagnostic performance.</p></sec><sec><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par11">Our research established a consistent and explainable ML framework for identifying VaDep in older adults, utilizing comprehensive clinical data. The 8 characteristics identified in the final LGBM model provide new insights for further exploration of VaDep mechanisms and emphasize the need for enhanced focus on early identification and intervention in this vulnerable group. More attention needs to be paid to the affective health of older adults.</p></sec><sec><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12916-025-04283-9.</p></sec></abstract><kwd-group xml:lang="en"><title>Keywords</title><kwd>Vascular depression</kwd><kwd>Late-life depression</kwd><kwd>Machine learning</kwd><kwd>Light Gradient Boosting Machine</kwd><kwd>White matter hyperintensity</kwd></kwd-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="FundRef">http://dx.doi.org/10.13039/501100012166</institution-id><institution>National Key Research and Development Program of China</institution></institution-wrap></funding-source><award-id>2021YFC2500102</award-id><award-id>2021YFC2500102</award-id><award-id>2021YFC2500102</award-id><award-id>2021YFC2500102</award-id><award-id>2021YFC2500102</award-id><award-id>2021YFC2500102</award-id><award-id>2021YFC2500102</award-id><award-id>2021YFC2500102</award-id><award-id>2021YFC2500102</award-id><award-id>2021YFC2500102</award-id><award-id>2021YFC2500102</award-id><award-id>2021YFC2500102</award-id><award-id>2021YFC2500102</award-id><award-id>2021YFC2500102</award-id></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University Medical Science and Technology Innovation Platform Support Project</institution></funding-source><award-id>PTXM2020006</award-id><award-id>PTXM2020006</award-id><award-id>PTXM2020006</award-id><award-id>PTXM2020006</award-id><award-id>PTXM2020006</award-id><award-id>PTXM2020006</award-id><award-id>PTXM2020006</award-id><award-id>PTXM2020006</award-id><award-id>PTXM2020006</award-id><award-id>PTXM2020006</award-id><award-id>PTXM2020006</award-id><award-id>PTXM2020006</award-id><award-id>PTXM2020006</award-id><award-id>PTXM2020006</award-id></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>Hubei Provincial Clinical Research Center for Dementia and Cognitive Impairment</institution></funding-source><award-id>PTYX2024024</award-id><award-id>PTYX2024024</award-id><award-id>PTYX2024024</award-id><award-id>PTYX2024024</award-id><award-id>PTYX2024024</award-id><award-id>PTYX2024024</award-id><award-id>PTYX2024024</award-id><award-id>PTYX2024024</award-id><award-id>PTYX2024024</award-id><award-id>PTYX2024024</award-id><award-id>PTYX2024024</award-id><award-id>PTYX2024024</award-id><award-id>PTYX2024024</award-id><award-id>PTYX2024024</award-id></award-group></funding-group><custom-meta-group><custom-meta><meta-name>issue-copyright-statement</meta-name><meta-value>&#x000a9; BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2025</meta-value></custom-meta></custom-meta-group></article-meta></front><body><sec id="Sec1"><title>Background
</title><p id="Par56">Depressive disorders among the older adults are prevalent and typically have more severe consequences and poorer prognoses [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>]. Late-life depression often co-occurs with cerebrovascular comorbidities and microvascular lesions. The concept of &#x0201c;vascular depression&#x0201d; was first proposed by Alexopoulos et al. in 1997, which argues that cerebrovascular disease may predispose, precipitate, or perpetuate some geriatric depressive symptoms as a consequence of structural damage to frontal-subcortical circuits [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>]. It is highly prevalent among older populations and has been associated with significant functional impairments, cognitive decline, and poorer treatment outcomes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>]. As the global population ages, early and accurate identification of VaDep is crucial to mitigate its long-term health and societal burdens.</p><p id="Par57">However, current diagnostic approaches for VaDep remain limited. Diagnosis typically relies on clinical evaluation, neuropsychological assessments, and neuroimaging findings [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>]. These methods face several challenges. Firstly, VaDep patients often experience mild depressive symptoms, which may not meet the criteria for major depressive disorder [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>]. Clinical assessments are often subjective and variable across examiners, especially neuropsychological assessments. But even subthreshold depressive disorders can significantly impact the functional status and mortality of older adults [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>]. Secondly, neuroimaging findings of vascular brain injuries exhibit considerable heterogeneity and reduce the clinical utility of imaging biomarkers [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>], such as white matter hyperintensity (WMH), lacunes, infarcts, and enlarged perivascular spaces. Thirdly, validated peripheral biomarkers for VaDep are currently lacking. Although some studies have linked inflammatory markers [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>], cytokines [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>] and endothelial function markers [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>] with depressive disorders in older adults, robust evidence to support their diagnostic utility remains insufficient. Consequently, misdiagnosis and underdiagnosis are common, and many patients fail to receive timely and appropriate interventions.
</p><p id="Par58">Given these challenges, there is a pressing need for more advanced diagnostic tools that can integrate heterogeneous clinical, biological, and imaging information to enhance diagnostic precision. Machine learning (ML) offers unique advantages in this regard. ML algorithms are capable of capturing complex, non-linear patterns within large and diverse datasets, enabling the discovery of subtle associations that traditional statistical methods may overlook [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>]. Recent ML applications in diagnosing depression have yielded encouraging outcomes, including improved diagnostic accuracy through the incorporation of multimodal data and successful external validations [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>]. Currently, no ML models specifically targeting the diagnosis of VaDep have been published. Although several models have been developed for late-life depression (LLD), VaDep represents a distinct clinical entity characterized by a prominent vascular contribution to affective symptoms. Our work represents a novel contribution by establishing the first ML framework specifically designed for VaDep.</p><p id="Par59">In this study, we aimed to develop and validate a ML model for the accurate diagnosis of VaDep in older populations. Distinctively, we integrated multimodal data, including clinical risk factors, blood markers, and neuroimaging features, to capture the multifactorial nature of VaDep. Furthermore, we emphasized model interpretability by employing SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) to elucidate the contributions of key features, enhancing the clinical transparency and applicability of our findings. Through rigorous internal and external validations, we sought to establish an explainable and clinically meaningful diagnostic framework for VaDep.</p></sec><sec id="Sec2"><title>Methods</title><sec id="Sec3"><title>Participants</title><sec id="Sec4"><title>Study population</title><p id="Par60">A total of 602 individuals participated in this study, comprising 236 patients diagnosed with VaDep and 366 controls without depression who met the inclusion criteria. This cohort served as the internal dataset for building the ML model. Participants were recruited from the Department of Neurology and the Physical Examination Center at Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University, along with the Shuiguohu Street Community Health Service Center, between July 2020 and October 2023. Participants formed a consecutive series. All eligible participants identified during the study period were enrolled without selection.</p></sec><sec id="Sec5"><title>Diagnostic criteria and clinical assessments</title><p id="Par61">Clinical assessments and the diagnosis of VaDep were conducted by at least two experienced neurologists according to clinical features, medical history, MRI scanning, and neuropsychological tests. The diagnostic criteria for VaDep referred to the <italic>Vascular Depression Consensus Report</italic> [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>], which includes the following: (1) evidence of vascular pathology confirmed by MRI imaging in older adult subjects with or without cognitive impairment; (2) absence of previous depressive episodes preceding obvious cerebrovascular disease, based on clinical interviews; (3) presence of at least one cerebrovascular risk factor (smoking, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease, or hyperlipidemia); (4) co-incidence of depression with cerebrovascular risk factors; (5) clinical symptoms characteristic of VaDep such as depression, executive dysfunction, and decrease in processing speed, evidenced by a Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS) score&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;10, and potentially prolonged performance on the Trail Making Test-B (TMT-B) or Victoria Stroop Test (VST); (6) neuroimaging data confirming cerebral vessel disease (CVD), such as WMH with a Fazekas score&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;2 and/or the presence of at least 2 typical lacunes.</p></sec><sec id="Sec6"><title>Inclusion and exclusion criteria</title><p id="Par62">Inclusion criteria for patients was as follows: (1) age 55 to 80&#x000a0;years old; (2) met the diagnostic criteria of VaDep as above; (3) could provide voluntary written informed consent. The controls were within the same age range without depression. Participants were excluded who (1) had a history&#x000a0;of&#x000a0;depressive episodes prior to CVD symptoms or before the age of 55; (2) had a family&#x000a0;history&#x000a0;of&#x000a0;depression or&#x000a0;history of psychoactive&#x000a0;substance&#x000a0;abuse; (3) experienced&#x000a0;major life events in recent years, such as divorce and death; (4) showed obvious auditory or visual handicaps for neuropsychological tests; (5) could not complete MRI scanning or other assessment procedures; and (6) suffered from other severe illnesses that could significantly affect emotional state, such as thyroid disease, infections, tumors, or systemic diseases.</p></sec><sec id="Sec7"><title>Ethical approval and informed consent
</title><p id="Par63">This study was performed with ethical approval of the Ethics Committee (ClinicalTrials.gov; ID: NCT04999813) and the Medical Ethics Committee, Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University (ID: 2,020,124). All participants provided written informed consent in line with the Declaration of Helsinki.</p></sec><sec id="Sec8"><title>Flow diagram of study participants</title><p id="Par64">The flow diagram is shown in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>.<fig id="Fig1"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;1</label><caption><p>Flow diagram of study participants</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4283_Fig1_HTML" id="MO1"/></fig></p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec9"><title>Data collection and processing</title><p id="Par65">This was a cross-sectional diagnostic accuracy study. Data collection and testing procedures were planned and conducted before performing the index test and reference standard. Every participant underwent standardized procedures for collecting clinical data, blood samples, and MRI scans. All steps were conducted in a blinded manner to minimize bias and ensure reproducibility.</p><sec id="Sec10"><title>Clinical information</title><p id="Par66">First, face-to-face interviews were conducted by two neurologists to obtain detailed clinical information, including demographic and health-related factors such as sex, age, body mass index (BMI), education, smoking status, physical activity levels, and medical history of hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and heart disease. Additionally, the Framingham Stroke Risk Profile (FSRP) was assessed. Laboratory tests conducted at the hospital&#x02019;s laboratory department measured fasting blood glucose, triglycerides (TG), total cholesterol (TC), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C).</p><p id="Par67">Clinical variables were defined as follows. BMI was calculated as weight in kilograms divided by the square of height in meters (kg/m<sup>2</sup>). Smoking status was categorized based on participant self-report: individuals who reported smoking at least one cigarette per day within the past 30&#x000a0;days were classified as &#x0201c;Yes,&#x0201d; and those who reported never smoking or having quit smoking more than 30&#x000a0;days prior to the assessment were classified as &#x0201c;No.&#x0201d; Physical activity levels were determined through self-report and classified according to current WHO guidelines: individuals engaging in moderate-to-vigorous physical activity for at least 150&#x000a0;min per week were categorized as &#x0201c;active,&#x0201d; whereas those with less than 150&#x000a0;min per week were categorized as &#x0201c;inactive.&#x0201d; Moderate-to-vigorous activities were defined as those causing noticeable increases in heart rate and breathing, such as brisk walking, cycling, or swimming. Medical history was assessed using a combination of participant self-report and objective clinical evaluations. Hypertension was defined as either two consecutive blood pressure measurements with systolic pressure&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;140&#x000a0;mmHg or diastolic pressure&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;90&#x000a0;mmHg, or a prior diagnosis of hypertension, or current use of anti-hypertensive medication. Diabetes mellitus was defined as fasting plasma glucose&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;7.0&#x000a0;mmol/L, a prior diagnosis of diabetes, or current use of anti-diabetic medication. Hyperlipidemia was defined as total cholesterol&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;5.2&#x000a0;mmol/L, triglycerides&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;1.7&#x000a0;mmol/L, a prior diagnosis of hyperlipidemia, or current use of lipid-lowering drugs. Heart disease was broadly defined as a history of clinically diagnosed coronary artery disease, myocardial infarction, heart failure, atrial fibrillation, or other major cardiac conditions as self-reported by the participant and/or documented in medical records.</p><p id="Par68">Subsequently, cognitive and depressive assessments were conducted by a certified neuropsychologist. The results were independently quality-controlled by a second assessor. The depressive symptoms were evaluated using the Geriatric Depression Scale-30 (GDS-30). Scores below 10 indicate no depressive symptoms, scores from 10 to 20 suggest possible depression, and scores more than 21 indicate definite depression. Executive function was measured through the Trail Making Test-B (TMT-B) and Victoria Stroop Test (VST).</p></sec><sec id="Sec11"><title>MRI data acquisition and processing</title><p id="Par69">Neuroimaging was performed using a 3.0&#x000a0;T MRI scanner equipped with a 32-channel array coil (Siemens Healthcare, Erlangen, Germany). To minimize head movement during scans, appropriate padding was used. The MRI protocol included whole-brain T1-weighted, T2-weighted, and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) sequences. T1-weighted images were captured using a sagittal three-dimensional magnetization-prepared rapid gradient echo sequence; the parameters were: reception time (TR)&#x02009;=&#x02009;2250&#x000a0;ms, echo time (TE)&#x02009;=&#x02009;2.26&#x000a0;ms, inversion time (TI)&#x02009;=&#x02009;900&#x000a0;ms, flip angle&#x02009;=&#x02009;9&#x000b0;, field of view (FOV)&#x02009;=&#x02009;224&#x02009;&#x000d7;&#x02009;256&#x000a0;mm, voxel size&#x02009;=&#x02009;1&#x02009;&#x000d7;&#x02009;1&#x02009;&#x000d7;&#x02009;1&#x000a0;mm, sagittal slices number&#x02009;=&#x02009;176. T2-FLAIR images were acquired using the inversion recovery MATRIX sequence with the following parameters: TR&#x02009;=&#x02009;6,000&#x000a0;ms, TE&#x02009;=&#x02009;388&#x000a0;ms, TI&#x02009;=&#x02009;2200&#x000a0;ms, flip angle&#x02009;=&#x02009;120&#x000b0;, echo sequence length&#x02009;=&#x02009;848, bandwidth&#x02009;=&#x02009;781&#x000a0;Hz/pixel, FOV&#x02009;=&#x02009;512&#x02009;&#x000d7;&#x02009;512&#x000a0;mm, voxel size&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.5&#x02009;&#x000d7;&#x02009;0.5&#x02009;&#x000d7;&#x02009;1&#x000a0;mm, sagittal slices number&#x02009;=&#x02009;160.</p><p id="Par70">To extract MRI features into textual data, WMH was visually assessed on T2-FLAIR images using Fazekas scores ranging from 0 to 6 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>]. A lacune was identified as a subcortical, round or oval fluid-filled cavity resembling cerebrospinal fluid on imaging, with a hyperdense rim on T2-FLAIR images and a diameter ranging from 3 to 15&#x000a0;mm [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>]. The number of lacunes was recorded. All was measured by two radiologists who underwent training prior to reading scans, blinded to clinical data and study objectives.</p><p id="Par71">In the training process of machine learning, we input WMH scores and lacune counts into the model as continuous variables. At the same time, we also transferred them into categorical variables to compare the distribution difference between groups. Specifically, WMH burden was categorized into none-to-mild (total Fazekas score 0&#x02013;2) versus moderate-to-severe (total Fazekas score 3&#x02013;6). Lacune counts were categorized into none-to-isolated lacune (0&#x02013;1 lacunes) versus multiple lacunes (&#x02265;&#x02009;2 lacunes).</p></sec><sec id="Sec12"><title>Collection and detection of blood sample</title><p id="Par72">Blood samples were collected from each participant after an overnight fast, with serum stored at&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;80&#x000a0;&#x000b0;C after centrifugation and sub-packaging. Biomarkers were quantified using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) or biochemical methods. Levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-&#x003b1;), C-reactive protein (CRP), glutamate, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and platelet-derived growth factor receptor-beta (PDGFR-&#x003b2;) were measured using ELISA or biochemical kits from Nanjing Jiancheng (Nanjing, China). Levels of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), serotonin (5-HT), and dopamine were assessed using ELISA kits from LDN (Nordhorn, Germany). The level of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) was determined using ELISA kits from Boster (Pleasanton, USA). All measurements were conducted by independent laboratory technicians to ensure objectivity and reliability of the results.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec13"><title>Construction of machine learning model</title><p id="Par73">For model construction, we employed a comprehensive internal dataset comprising demographics, medical histories, lifestyle factors, imaging markers, results of blood tests, and executive function tests. We selected the variables for their accessibility, objectivity in clinical assessment, and strong associations with VaDep as established by prior research. For categorical variables (e.g., sex), we applied one-hot encoding to convert them into binary numerical representations suitable for machine learning algorithms. For continuous variables (e.g., biomarker levels), we performed <italic>Z</italic>-score standardization to transform them to have a mean of 0 and a standard deviation of 1. Features with more than 20% missing values were excluded from subsequent analyses (see Additional file 1: Table <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S1</xref>&#x02013;<xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S2</xref>). Missing values for the remaining data were imputed using the median for continuous variables and the mode for categorical variables. Next, we tested these variables for multicollinearity, and the results were provided in the Additional file 1: Fig. <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S1</xref>. Initially, the diagnostic model included 30 clinical textual variables.</p><p id="Par74">The dataset used for model construction was randomly divided, allocating 80% for training and the remaining 20% for the test set, with consistent random seeds across all models. To mitigate overfitting and enhance the generalizability of the model, the training set was further randomly split into five equal-sized subsets, and a fivefold cross-validation was conducted ten times. A grid search technique was utilized to identify the optimal hyperparameters. The test set was then used to evaluate the model&#x02019;s performance with these hyperparameters, outputting the probability of VaDep diagnosis for further analysis.</p><p id="Par75">Initial screening of ML models was conducted using the lazypredict package. Based on multiple performance metrics (accuracy, balanced Accuracy, AUROC and F1 score), the top 6 algorithms were selected from all 27 algorithms for further training and evaluation: Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGB), Bagging, Light Gradient Boosting Machine (LGBM), Extra Trees (ET), Adaptive Boosting (Adaboost), and Random Forest (RF). These models were developed using Python algorithms afterwards. Model performance was assessed using several metrics, including the area under the receiver operating curve (AUROC), the area under the precision-recall curve (AUPR), accuracy, specificity, recall, precision, and F1 score.</p></sec><sec id="Sec14"><title>Feature selection and model explanation</title><p id="Par76">To enhance the interpretability of our models, we employed the SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) algorithm [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>] to gain a deeper understanding of the factors influencing model performance. Additionally, we aimed to identify the minimum set of necessary variables to increase clinical applicability and simplify the model&#x02019;s interpretation. Therefore, for each of the 6 ML algorithms, we performed feature reduction separately. SHAP values were calculated for each feature to assess its contribution to model decision-making, and features were ranked accordingly. A sequential forward selection strategy [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>] was then employed, starting from the feature with the highest contribution, incrementally adding features into the model and evaluating performance at each step. More specifically, for each algorithm, 30 consecutive models with varying feature subsets were constructed, and the performance metric (AUROC) for each model was recorded. Then, the algorithm demonstrating the best overall performance across these 30 models was selected.</p><p id="Par77">After selecting the algorithm, we observed that as the number of features increased, model performance gradually stabilized. We determined the final stopping point when adding more features no longer significantly improved performance, thereby achieving the optimal balance between model complexity and diagnostic accuracy. This process of feature reduction resulted in a final model.</p><p id="Par78">At last, The SHAP analysis was applied again to re-interpret the contributions of each feature in the final model, allowing a more comprehensive understanding of the underlying classification features of the ML model and significantly enhancing its interpretability.</p></sec><sec id="Sec15"><title>External validation</title><p id="Par79">For external validation, an independent dataset comprising 75 VaDep patients and 96 controls, who met identical inclusion and exclusion criteria, was compiled. These participants were recruited from the General Hospital of the Yangtze River Shipping and Third People&#x02019;s Hospital of Hubei Province between August 2022 and April 2024. All pre-processed variables were input into the trained final model, and model performance was comprehensively evaluated by calculating AUROC, AUPR, and other relevant metrics.</p><p id="Par80">Regarding the detailed process of the ML method used in this study, from model construction to external validation, we have drawn another flowchart, see the Additional file 1: Fig. <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S2</xref>.</p></sec><sec id="Sec16"><title>Expert clinical validation</title><p id="Par81">To compare the advantages of the ML model with conventional diagnostic methods for VaDep, we invited six neurologists to independently assess 100 participants. In clinical practice, the diagnosis of VaDep primarily relies on clinicians&#x02019; comprehensive evaluation of a patient&#x02019;s clinical data. For this purpose, we employed a dedicated dataset consisting of 100 participants selected from the internal test set using a stratified random sampling approach. Specifically, the internal test set was first stratified into two layers: case group (VaDep patients) and control group (50 cases each, maintaining 1:1 balance). Within each stratum, simple random sampling was performed using Python&#x02019;s random number generator (Random module) to select 50 unique participants.</p><p id="Par82">To closely simulate real-world clinical scenarios, each neurologist was provided with a complete dataset for every participant, encompassing demographic information, medical history, neuroimaging data and scans, laboratory test results, and cognitive assessment outcomes. The neurologists were instructed to assign a confidence score ranging from 0 to 100 for each case [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>], with higher scores indicating a greater likelihood of a VaDep diagnosis. For statistical analysis, these confidence scores were normalized by dividing by 100, thereby converting them into probability values ranging from 0 to 1, consistent with the output scale of the ML model. The average confidence score across the six neurologists was then calculated and used to evaluate the overall diagnostic performance of the clinicians.</p><p id="Par83">In the statistical analysis, we first evaluated the inter-rater agreement among the six neurologists. Pairwise Pearson correlation analyses were conducted between the confidence scores assigned by each physician to calculate correlation coefficients for each pair. Subsequently, the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and its 95% confidence interval were derived to quantify overall consistency. Finally, the diagnostic performance of the neurologists was compared with that of the model based on the AUROC and AUPR.</p></sec><sec id="Sec17"><title>Statistical analysis</title><p id="Par84">Continuous variables were described as mean&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;standard deviation for normally distributed data, and median [interquartile range] for skewed data, with categorical variables reported as counts (percentage). The comparison between VaDep patients and controls involved using the independent samples t-test for normally distributed continuous variables, the Mann&#x02013;Whitney <italic>U</italic> test for non-normally distributed variables, and the chi-square test for categorical variables. Normality was assessed using the Shapiro&#x02013;Wilk test and visual inspection of histograms. Missing values were imputed using the median for continuous variables and mode for categorical variables.</p><p id="Par85">To assess model performance, we calculated accuracy, specificity, and F1-score (the harmonic means of recall and precision). These were computed using the formulas: <inline-formula id="IEq1"><alternatives><tex-math id="d33e761">\documentclass[12pt]{minimal}
				\usepackage{amsmath}
				\usepackage{wasysym} 
				\usepackage{amsfonts} 
				\usepackage{amssymb} 
				\usepackage{amsbsy}
				\usepackage{mathrsfs}
				\usepackage{upgreek}
				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt}
				\begin{document}$$\frac{\text{TP}+\text{TN}}{\text{TP}+\text{TN}+\text{FP}+\text{FN}}$$\end{document}</tex-math><mml:math id="d33e766"><mml:mfrac><mml:mrow><mml:mtext>TP</mml:mtext><mml:mo>+</mml:mo><mml:mtext>TN</mml:mtext></mml:mrow><mml:mrow><mml:mtext>TP</mml:mtext><mml:mo>+</mml:mo><mml:mtext>TN</mml:mtext><mml:mo>+</mml:mo><mml:mtext>FP</mml:mtext><mml:mo>+</mml:mo><mml:mtext>FN</mml:mtext></mml:mrow></mml:mfrac></mml:math><inline-graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4283_Article_IEq1.gif"/></alternatives></inline-formula>, <inline-formula id="IEq2"><alternatives><tex-math id="d33e782">\documentclass[12pt]{minimal}
				\usepackage{amsmath}
				\usepackage{wasysym} 
				\usepackage{amsfonts} 
				\usepackage{amssymb} 
				\usepackage{amsbsy}
				\usepackage{mathrsfs}
				\usepackage{upgreek}
				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt}
				\begin{document}$$\frac{\text{TN}}{\text{FP}+\text{TN}}$$\end{document}</tex-math><mml:math id="d33e787"><mml:mfrac><mml:mtext>TN</mml:mtext><mml:mrow><mml:mtext>FP</mml:mtext><mml:mo>+</mml:mo><mml:mtext>TN</mml:mtext></mml:mrow></mml:mfrac></mml:math><inline-graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4283_Article_IEq2.gif"/></alternatives></inline-formula> and <inline-formula id="IEq3"><alternatives><tex-math id="d33e796">\documentclass[12pt]{minimal}
				\usepackage{amsmath}
				\usepackage{wasysym} 
				\usepackage{amsfonts} 
				\usepackage{amssymb} 
				\usepackage{amsbsy}
				\usepackage{mathrsfs}
				\usepackage{upgreek}
				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt}
				\begin{document}$$\frac{\text{2*TP}}{\text{2*TP+FP+FN}}$$\end{document}</tex-math><mml:math id="d33e801"><mml:mfrac><mml:mtext>2*TP</mml:mtext><mml:mtext>2*TP+FP+FN</mml:mtext></mml:mfrac></mml:math><inline-graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4283_Article_IEq3.gif"/></alternatives></inline-formula>, respectively. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) and precision-recall (PR) curves were generated, and the areas under these curves (AUROC and AUPR, respectively) were calculated to serve as the primary performance metrics. The 95% confidence intervals for these metrics were established using 1000 bootstrap samples. ROC comparisons were performed using the non-parametric DeLong method in MedCalc software, version 20.</p><p id="Par86">Spearman correlation analysis was conducted to evaluate the relationships between features of the final model and depression scores (GDS) within the internal dataset, adjusting for sex, age, and education as covariates. The Benjamini&#x02013;Hochberg false discovery rate (FDR) was applied for multiple comparisons, with statistical significance set at <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05. The model construction and visualization processes were implemented using Python (v3.10.9) with libraries such as scikit-learn (v1.0.2), xgboost (v2.0.3), numpy (v1.24.3), pandas (v2.0.1), and scipy (1.14.0). Additional statistical analyses were carried out using R (v4.4.1) and IBM SPSS Statistics 27.</p></sec><sec id="Sec18"><title>Flow chart of the overall study design</title><p id="Par87">The flow chart is shown in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>.<fig id="Fig2"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;2</label><caption><p>The framework for multi-data collection, model construction, model validation, and interpretation. Data included clinical information, laboratory test results, neuropsychological tests, blood detection and MRI data. Imaging markers, WMH and lacune counts, were derived from T1 and T2-FLAIR. The models were developed using 6 ML algorithms after initial screening and feature reduction was performed based on SHAP values. Subsequently, the final model underwent external validation and further interpretation. Abbreviations: SHAP, SHapley Additive exPlanations; WMH, white&#x000a0;matter&#x000a0;hyperintensity; ML, machine learning; GDS, geriatric depression scale</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4283_Fig2_HTML" id="MO2"/></fig></p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec19"><title>Results</title><sec id="Sec20"><title>Participant characteristics</title><p id="Par88">For the construction of our ML models, we recruited a cohort consisting of 236 patients diagnosed with VaDep and 366 controls without depression. Detailed demographic and clinical characteristics were presented in Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref>. Additionally, to validate the model performance further, an external cohort of 75 VaDep patients and 96 controls within the same age range was assembled, as detailed in Additional file 1: Table <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S3</xref>.
<table-wrap id="Tab1"><label>Table&#x000a0;1</label><caption><p>Clinical characteristics of internal dataset</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left"/><th align="left" colspan="3"><bold>Model construction dataset</bold></th></tr><tr><th align="left"><bold>Characteristics</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>VaDep group (</bold><bold><italic>n</italic></bold><bold>&#x02009;=&#x02009;236)</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>Controls (</bold><bold><italic>n</italic></bold><bold>&#x02009;=&#x02009;366)</bold></th><th align="left"><bold><italic>P</italic></bold>-<bold>value</bold></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">Age (years)</td><td align="left">74 (61&#x02013;76)</td><td align="left">67 (60&#x02013;74)</td><td char="." align="char">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001*</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Male, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">137 (58.1%)</td><td align="left">246 (67.2%)</td><td char="." align="char">0.023*</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Education (years)</td><td align="left">9 (8&#x02013;12)</td><td align="left">9 (8&#x02013;12)</td><td char="." align="char">0.895</td></tr><tr><td align="left">BMI (kg/m<sup>2</sup>)</td><td align="left">26.70 (23.94&#x02013;30.19)</td><td align="left">26.80 (24.34&#x02013;30.72)</td><td char="." align="char">0.462</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Smoking (%)</td><td align="left">47 (19.9%)</td><td align="left">81 (22.1%)</td><td char="." align="char">0.517</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Hypertension (%)</td><td align="left">171 (72.5%)</td><td align="left">248 (67.8%)</td><td char="." align="char">0.221</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Diabetes (%)</td><td align="left">53 (22.5%)</td><td align="left">97 (26.5%)</td><td char="." align="char">0.263</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Hyperlipidemia (%)</td><td align="left">133 (56.4%)</td><td align="left">217 (59.3%)</td><td char="." align="char">0.476</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Heart disease (%)</td><td align="left">16 (6.8%)</td><td align="left">25 (6.8%)</td><td char="." align="char">0.981</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Physical activities (%)</td><td align="left">133 (56.4%)</td><td align="left">243 (66.4%)</td><td char="." align="char">0.013*</td></tr><tr><td align="left">FSRP scores</td><td align="left">11 (6&#x02013;17)</td><td align="left">11 (7&#x02013;18)</td><td char="." align="char">0.403</td></tr><tr><td align="left">TMT-B (s)</td><td align="left">69.25 (50.00&#x02013;121.27)</td><td align="left">52.00 (37.00&#x02013;87.00)</td><td char="." align="char">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001*</td></tr><tr><td align="left">VST (s)</td><td align="left">36.40 (13.09&#x02013;71.74)</td><td align="left">38.50 (7.32&#x02013;78.37)</td><td char="." align="char">0.818</td></tr><tr><td align="left">WMH</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td char="." align="char">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001*</td></tr><tr><td align="left">None-to-Mild (Fazekas 0&#x02013;2)</td><td align="left">78 (33.1%)</td><td align="left">248 (67.8%)</td><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Moderate-to-severe (Fazekas 3&#x02013;6)</td><td align="left">158 (66.9%)</td><td align="left">118 (32.2%)</td><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Lacune</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td char="." align="char">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001*</td></tr><tr><td align="left">0&#x02013;1 lacunes</td><td align="left">115 (48.7%)</td><td align="left">266 (72.7%)</td><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;2 lacunes</td><td align="left">121 (51.3%)</td><td align="left">100 (27.3%)</td><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Glucose (mmol/L)</td><td align="left">5.90 (5.20&#x02013;6.30)</td><td align="left">5.90 (5.20&#x02013;6.60)</td><td char="." align="char">0.605</td></tr><tr><td align="left">TC (mmol/L)</td><td align="left">5.00 (4.01&#x02013;5.70)</td><td align="left">5.10 (4.01&#x02013;5.70)</td><td char="." align="char">0.600</td></tr><tr><td align="left">TG (mmol/L)</td><td align="left">1.44 (1.12&#x02013;1.77)</td><td align="left">1.44 (1.10&#x02013;1.93)</td><td char="." align="char">0.861</td></tr><tr><td align="left">HDL-C (mmol/L)</td><td align="left">1.32 (1.05&#x02013;1.50)</td><td align="left">1.32 (1.10&#x02013;1.50)</td><td char="." align="char">0.846</td></tr><tr><td align="left">LDL-C (mmol/L)</td><td align="left">3.01 (2.44&#x02013;3.27)</td><td align="left">3.01 (2.37&#x02013;3.30)</td><td char="." align="char">0.981</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Glutamate (&#x003bc;mol/L)</td><td align="left">75.079 (49.729&#x02013;101.110)</td><td align="left">77.172 (55.797&#x02013;101.204)</td><td char="." align="char">0.305</td></tr><tr><td align="left">GABA (ng/mL)</td><td align="left">517.769 (289.090&#x02013;851.377)</td><td align="left">585.025 (293.933&#x02013;889.856)</td><td char="." align="char">0.318</td></tr><tr><td align="left">5-HT (ng/mL)</td><td align="left">7.447 (3.198&#x02013;11.500)</td><td align="left">10.663 (1.732&#x02013;15.103)</td><td char="." align="char">0.008*</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Dopamine (ng/mL)</td><td align="left">1.289 (0.887&#x02013;1.945)</td><td align="left">1.516 (1.055&#x02013;1.924)</td><td char="." align="char">0.010*</td></tr><tr><td align="left">IL-6 (ng/L)</td><td align="left">39.067 (29.990&#x02013;51.316)</td><td align="left">29.262 (20.592&#x02013;46.767)</td><td char="." align="char">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001*</td></tr><tr><td align="left">TNF-&#x003b1; (ng/L)</td><td align="left">49.121 (37.622&#x02013;70.052)</td><td align="left">42.739 (31.351&#x02013;56.427)</td><td char="." align="char">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001*</td></tr><tr><td align="left">CRP (mg/L)</td><td align="left">3.119 (2.159&#x02013;4.288)</td><td align="left">2.951 (2.029&#x02013;3.731)</td><td char="." align="char">0.026*</td></tr><tr><td align="left">BDNF (ng/mL)</td><td align="left">1.088 (0.867&#x02013;1.467)</td><td align="left">1.405 (0.982&#x02013;1.694)</td><td char="." align="char">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001*</td></tr><tr><td align="left">PDGFR-&#x003b2; (ng/mL)</td><td align="left">8.484 (7.508&#x02013;10.180)</td><td align="left">8.370 (7.062&#x02013;10.877)</td><td char="." align="char">0.726</td></tr><tr><td align="left">VEGF (pg/mL)</td><td align="left">261.225 (151.208&#x02013;360.265)</td><td align="left">324.016 (190.873&#x02013;471.182)</td><td char="." align="char">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001*</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>Note: Continuous variables were expressed as mean&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;standard deviation or median (interquartile range) and compared using independent-sample <italic>t</italic> test or Mann&#x02013;Whitney <italic>U</italic> test between two groups. Categorical variables were expressed as counts (%) and chi-square test was used for frequency comparison between two groups. <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05*. Abbreviations: <italic>VaDep</italic>, vascular depression; <italic>BMI</italic>, body mass index; <italic>FSRP</italic>, Framingham stroke risk profile; <italic>TMT-B</italic>, Trail Making Test-B; <italic>VST</italic>, Victoria Stroop Test; WMH, white&#x000a0;matter&#x000a0;hyperintensity; <italic>TC</italic>, total cholesterol; <italic>TG</italic>, triglycerides; <italic>HDL-C</italic>, high-density lipoproteins cholesterol; <italic>LDL-C</italic>, low-density lipoproteins cholesterol; <italic>GABA</italic>, gamma-aminobutyric acid; <italic>5-HT</italic>, serotonin; <italic>IL-6</italic>, interleukin 6; <italic>TNF-&#x003b1;</italic>, tumor necrosis factor-&#x003b1;; <italic>CRP</italic>, C-reactive protein; <italic>BDNF</italic>, brain-derived neurotrophic factor; <italic>PDGFR-&#x003b2;</italic>, platelet derived growth factor receptor-beta; <italic>VEGF</italic>, vascular endothelial growth factor</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p><p id="Par89">Significant differences were observed in age (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001), sex (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.023), physical activities (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.013), TMT-B scores (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001), WMH (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001), lacune (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001), levels of 5-HT (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.008), dopamine (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.010), IL-6 (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001), TNF-&#x003b1; (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001), CRP (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.026), BDNF (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001), and VEGF (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001) between the two groups. The VaDep group exhibited higher ages, a greater proportion of females, higher TMT-B scores, WMH scores, lacune counts, and levels of inflammatory markers such as IL-6 and TNF-&#x003b1;. They also engaged in fewer physical activities and had lower levels of neurotransmitters (5-HT and dopamine) and neuroprotective factors (BDNF and VEGF) compared to the control group. No other significant differences were observed between the two groups.</p></sec><sec id="Sec21"><title>Model development and performance comparison</title><p id="Par90">Following the screening of variables, the initial model included 30 variables encompassing clinical features, imaging markers, executive function measures, and results from blood tests. These data were used to generate 27 ML models through the lazypredict algorithms as a preliminary screening to develop a comprehensive diagnostic model for VaDep. The discriminative performances of these models are listed in Additional file 1: Table <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S4</xref>.</p><p id="Par91">Based on model performance rankings, we selected the top 6 ML algorithms for further internal training and testing, including Light Gradient Boosting Machine (LGBM), Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGB), Random Forest (RF), Adaptive Boosting (Adaboost), Bagging, and Extra Trees (ET) classifier. The LGBM model demonstrated the highest diagnostic accuracy for VaDep (AUROC&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.928), followed by the XGB model (AUROC&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.925) and the RF model (AUROC&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.900). The ROC curves were shown in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig3" ref-type="fig">3</xref>A. The AUPR were also highest for the LGBM model (AUPR&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.902), followed by the XGB model (AUPR&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.898). Further details were provided in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig3" ref-type="fig">3</xref>B, highlighting that among the evaluated models, the LGBM model performed the best in diagnosing VaDep. Key performance metrics (AUROC, AUPR, accuracy, precision, recall, F1 score, and specificity) assessing the diagnostic power of each model were detailed in Additional file 1: Table <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S5</xref>.<fig id="Fig3"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;3</label><caption><p>Performance of the top six ML models to diagnose VaDep. <bold>A</bold> ROC curves of the ML models. <bold>B</bold> PR curves of the ML models. Abbreviations: <italic>AUROC</italic>, the area under the ROC curves; <italic>AUPR</italic>, the area under the <italic>PR</italic> curves; <italic>LGBM</italic>, Light Gradient Boosting Machine; <italic>Adaboost</italic>, Adaptive Boosting; <italic>XGB</italic>, Extreme Gradient Boosting</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4283_Fig3_HTML" id="MO3"/></fig></p></sec><sec id="Sec22"><title>Identification of the final model</title><p id="Par92">Using SHAP analysis, we systematically ranked all features by their contribution to VaDep diagnosis for each model, as detailed in Additional file 1: Fig. <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S3</xref>&#x02013;<xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S8</xref>. We additionally conducted permutation importance analyses for the LGBM, RF, and XGB models and compared the results with their corresponding SHAP analyses (Additional file 1: Fig. <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S9</xref>&#x02013;<xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S11</xref>).</p><p id="Par93">This process involved constructing successive models using the top 6 ML algorithms, incrementally adding features according to their SHAP importance. The LGBM consistently exhibited high classification capabilities, as illustrated in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig4" ref-type="fig">4</xref>A. The AUROC values for these models, with varying numbers of features, were documented in Additional file 1: Table <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S6</xref>. Thus, the LGBM model was selected for the further data combination.<fig id="Fig4"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;4</label><caption><p>Model selection and features reduction to identify the final model. <bold>A</bold> AUROCs of the top 6 best performing ML models with varied numbers of features. <bold>B</bold> AUROC, AUPR, specificity, and recall of the LGBM model with varied numbers of features. <bold>C</bold> Metrics comparison including accuracy, AUROC, AUPR, F1-score, precision, recall, and specificity between 8-feature and 33-feature model. Abbreviations: LGBM, Light Gradient Boosting Machine; XGB, Extreme Gradient Boosting; RF, Random Forest; Adaboost, Adaptive Boosting; ET, Extra Trees; AUROC, the area under the receiver operating characteristic curves; AUPR, the area under the PR curves</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4283_Fig4_HTML" id="MO4"/></fig></p><p id="Par94">During the feature reduction phase, the impact of incrementally adding features was evaluated, with results shown in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig4" ref-type="fig">4</xref>B. Performance metrics improved significantly as the initial set of features was introduced and then plateaued with minor fluctuations upon the addition of subsequent features. Ultimately, an 8-feature LGBM model was finalized, incorporating WMH score, age, VEGF, IL-6, BDNF, TNF-&#x003b1; levels, lacune counts, and 5-HT level. This model achieved outstanding diagnostic performance with an AUROC of 0.937, accuracy of 0.884, precision of 0.872, recall of 0.837, F1 score of 0.854, AUPR of 0.925, and specificity of 0.917. The performance metrics across different feature sets for the LGBM model were detailed in Additional file 1: Table <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S7</xref>.</p><p id="Par95">Further, as demonstrated in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig4" ref-type="fig">4</xref>C, the final 8-feature model achieved performance metrics comparable to the initial 30-feature model, underscoring the model&#x02019;s clinical utility with a reduced number of variables.</p></sec><sec id="Sec23"><title>External validation of the final model</title><p id="Par96">For external validation, the selected LGBM model was tested against an external dataset. As illustrated in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig5" ref-type="fig">5</xref>, the model achieved an AUROC of 0.896 (0.840&#x02013;0.943) and AUPR of 0.885 (0.818&#x02013;0.940) in the external dataset, slightly lower than those observed in the internal dataset, but this discrepancy was not statistically significant (&#x00394;AUROC&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.041, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.216). These results affirmed the LGBM model&#x02019;s consistent performance in both internal and external validation contexts. Detailed performance metrics for the external validation were presented in Additional file 1: Table <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S8</xref>.<fig id="Fig5"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;5</label><caption><p>Comparison of final model&#x02019;s performance in external validation and internal training. <bold>A</bold> ROC curves of final model; <bold>B</bold> PR curves of final model. Abbreviations: AUROC, the area under the ROC curves; AUPR, the area under the PR curves</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4283_Fig5_HTML" id="MO5"/></fig></p></sec><sec id="Sec24"><title>Model explanation and features ranking</title><p id="Par97">The final LGBM model exhibited reliable performance during both internal and external validations. The SHAP method was employed to interpret the contributions of each variable within the model, helping to clarify how different features influence the diagnosis of VaDep. As depicted in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig6" ref-type="fig">6</xref>, the significance of each feature was ranked based on average SHAP values, displayed in descending order. The most influential features identified were WMH scores, followed by BDNF level, age, TNF-&#x003b1;, IL-6, VEGF, 5-HT levels, and lacune counts.<fig id="Fig6"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;6</label><caption><p>The SHAP values of the final LGBM model. <bold>A</bold> The mean absolute SHAP values (average impact on model output magnitude) of the features in the final model. <bold>B</bold> The distribution of SHAP values of the features in the final model. Abbreviations: SHAP, SHapley Additive exPlanations; WMH, white&#x000a0;matter&#x000a0;hyperintensity; BDNF, brain-derived neurotrophic factor; TNF-&#x003b1;, tumor necrosis factor-&#x003b1;; IL-6, interleukin-6; VEGF, vascular endothelial growth factor; 5-HT, serotonin</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4283_Fig6_HTML" id="MO6"/></fig></p><p id="Par98">Further, we explored potential biomarkers linked to VaDep using Spearman correlation analysis, which involved correlating GDS scores with the features of the final LGBM model and the model&#x02019;s diagnostic probability of VaDep in the internal test set. Statistically significant correlations were observed between GDS scores and age (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001), VEGF level (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.018), BDNF level (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.003), 5-HT level (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.034), and lacune counts (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.003), as shown in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig7" ref-type="fig">7</xref>A&#x02013;H. Raincloud plots highlighted the differences between the VaDep group and controls, with the VaDep group showing higher ages, WMH scores, and lacune counts, alongside lower levels of the neurotransmitter 5-HT and the neuroprotective factor VEGF. These findings suggest that these features could serve as effective markers for identifying VaDep.<fig id="Fig7"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;7</label><caption><p>Spearman correlation analysis between depression scores and features of final model, as well as P (VaDep). It was shown plotted along with regression lines and 95% confidence intervals. All the analyses were controlled by sex, age, and education, and corrected by false discovery rate (FDR). The variable &#x0201c;age&#x0201d; was only controlled by sex and education. The side raincloud plots of the features showed the group differences, in which pink and purple represented VaDep group and controls, respectively. Coefficients and corresponding two-tailed p values were also shown. <bold>A</bold> WMH score; <bold>B</bold> age; <bold>C</bold> VEGF level; <bold>D</bold> IL-6 level; <bold>E</bold> BDNF level; <bold>F</bold> TNF-&#x003b1; level; <bold>G</bold> lacune counts; <bold>H</bold> 5-HT level; <bold>I</bold> P (VaDep). Abbreviations: VaDep, vascular depression; GDS, geriatric depression scale; WMH, white&#x000a0;matter&#x000a0;hyperintensity; VEGF, vascular endothelial growth factor; 5-HT, serotonin; BDNF, brain-derived neurotrophic factor; IL-6, interleukin-6; TNF-&#x003b1;, tumor necrosis factor-&#x003b1;</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4283_Fig7_HTML" id="MO7"/></fig></p><p id="Par99">Additionally, the probability of a VaDep diagnosis from the final model was calculated using the 20% test set. This analysis also included correlation assessments between the P (VaDep) and GDS scores, revealing a significant positive correlation (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.001) as illustrated in F<xref rid="Fig7" ref-type="fig">i</xref>g.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig7" ref-type="fig">7</xref>I. The details of group&#x000a0;comparison were presented in Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref> and correlation analysis (coefficient and <italic>p</italic> values) in Additional file 1: Tables S9.</p></sec><sec id="Sec25"><title>Diagnostic performance of the model and clinicians</title><p id="Par100">To assess whether our ML model could perform comparably to clinicians in diagnosing VaDep, we first normalized the confidence scores assigned by the six neurologists for 100 participants to a range between 0 and 1, aligning them with the output scale of the ML model. Subsequently, we calculated the pairwise Pearson correlation coefficients among the six physicians&#x02019; scores. As shown in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig8" ref-type="fig">8</xref>A, moderate to high agreement was observed between most physicians (<italic>R</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.75&#x02013;0.85), indicating minor rating discrepancies among some physicians but overall consistent scoring criteria. We further evaluated the overall inter-rater reliability using a two-way random-effects model (ICC [2, k]), yielding an intraclass correlation coefficient of 0.96 (95% CI: 0.94&#x02013;0.97), which indicates a high level of agreement across all raters.<fig id="Fig8"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;8</label><caption><p>Comparison of diagnostic performance between the ML model and clinicians. <bold>A</bold> Inter-rater consistency among the six clinicians. Pairwise Pearson correlation coefficients were calculated based on their confidence scores for diagnosing VaDep. These coefficients are visualized in a correlation matrix, where the color gradient from green to purple indicates increasing correlation values, reflecting higher consistency in clinical evaluations among the neurologists. <bold>B</bold>, <bold>C</bold> Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve and precision-recall (PR) curve comparing the average diagnostic performance of neurologists with that of the ML model. Six neurologists independently assessed 100 randomly selected cases and assigned a confidence score (ranging from 0 to 100) to each, with higher scores indicating a higher likelihood of VaDep. The average of these scores was then used to represent the overall diagnostic performance of the clinicians</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4283_Fig8_HTML" id="MO8"/></fig></p><p id="Par101">Next, the mean confidence score across the six neurologists was calculated to represent the overall diagnostic performance of clinicians in identifying VaDep. As illustrated in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig8" ref-type="fig">8</xref>B&#x02013;C, the ML model demonstrated slightly superior diagnostic performance compared to the neurologists (AUROC: 0.936 (0.891&#x02013;0.980) vs. 0.884 (0.818&#x02013;0.949); AUPR: 0.941 (0.892&#x02013;0.978) vs. 0.882 (0.794&#x02013;0.951)). The DeLong&#x02019;s test indicated no statistically significant difference between the two (<italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.196). These results suggest that the ML model achieved, and marginally exceeded, clinician-level diagnostic performance within the specific dataset.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec26"><title>Discussion</title><p id="Par102">This study developed an LGBM-based diagnostic model for VaDep, utilizing SHAP values to refine feature selection. The final model retained only 8 key variables from clinical, MRI, and blood marker data while maintaining performance comparable to the initial 30-feature model. External validation confirmed its reliability across datasets, with diagnostic accuracy matching or slightly surpassing clinician-level performance. The model provides probabilistic VaDep diagnoses to support clinical decision-making.</p><p id="Par103">Early identification of VaDep remains clinically challenging due to subtle symptoms, imaging variability, and lack of reliable biomarkers [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>]. Even mild depressive symptoms in older patients can severely impact functionality and mortality, highlighting the need for better diagnostic approaches. The complex pathophysiology of VaDep [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>] requires multimodal data integration to improve diagnosis. Machine learning techniques [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>], with their ability to analyze complex datasets, present an ideal solution to these diagnostic challenges while emphasizing the importance of addressing mental health in older adults.</p><p id="Par104">Among evaluated models, LGBM was the top performer, achieving the highest AUROC and effective feature reduction, consistent with prior studies in medical fields. Details on all metrics&#x02019; clinical implications (AUROC, accuracy, precision, recall, F1 score, AUPR, specificity) are provided in Additional file 1: Table <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S10</xref>. LGBM shows high diagnostic accuracy and generalizability in structured clinical and biological data. For example, Wang et al. used LGBM for precise mRNA vaccine lipid nanoparticle prediction [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR21">21</xref>]; Qi et al. found it had the highest AUC for cardiovascular disease&#x02013;cancer comorbidity [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR22">22</xref>]; Song et al. reported its superiority in predicting mild cognitive impairment [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>]; and Sun et al. confirmed robust early sepsis prediction [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>]. LGBM&#x02019;s efficiency and scalability suit large, complex datasets [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>]. Its leaf-wise growth strategy optimizes splits for accuracy and lower complexity, making it ideal for ranking, classification, and regression in medical diagnostics [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR26">26</xref>].</p><p id="Par105">In deploying the LGBM algorithm, we streamlined the model to 8 key features. While including more features might enhance diagnostic detail, it could also limit clinical utility due to greater complexity [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR27">27</xref>]. Using SHAP for feature selection, we ensured the final model is both effective and user-friendly, making it a practical clinical tool for VaDep diagnosis.</p><p id="Par106">The final model includes WMH scores, BDNF level, age, TNF-&#x003b1;, IL-6, VEGF, 5-HT levels, and lacune counts. Although direct evidence for each variable&#x02019;s diagnostic value in VaDep is limited, together they are linked to increased disease risk. Vascular factors may contribute to depression through mechanisms like neural circuit disruption, immune activation, inflammatory damage, hypoperfusion, and neurovascular unit changes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>].</p><p id="Par107">Firstly, WMH score carries the most weight in our model. Focal vascular damage and white matter lesions may trigger depression by disrupting neural connections in emotion-related brain regions [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>]. Previous research identifies WMH as a major independent risk factor for depressive disorders, especially lesions in the frontal lobe and basal ganglia [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR28">28</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>]. WMH volume, lesion count, and progression are all linked to depression severity [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR31">31</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR32">32</xref>], along with other small vessel disease markers like lacune. This strongly supports the &#x0201c;disconnection hypothesis&#x0201d; as the key pathophysiological mechanism of VaDep.</p><p id="Par108">Secondly, neurotrophic factors are the second most important contributors in the model. In chronic ischemic depression, brain injury leads to structural and functional changes in neurons, glial, and endothelial cells [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>]. Microvascular dysfunction is a key factor in VaDep [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR33">33</xref>]. Reduced levels of neurotrophic factors like BDNF and VEGF may alter cortical neuron structure and function, affecting brain dopamine and 5-HT levels, and thus contribute to the onset and progression of VaDep [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR34">34</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR35">35</xref>].</p><p id="Par109">Thirdly, age and related inflammatory markers also play a significant role in our model. Aging reduces immune function but increases peripheral immune activity, leading to a proinflammatory state in the CNS that may contribute to affective disorders [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR36">36</xref>]. Higher peripheral cytokines, particularly IL-6, and also IL-1&#x003b2; and TNF-&#x003b1;, are linked to depressive symptoms in older adults [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR37">37</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR38">38</xref>]. These proinflammatory cytokines may promote depression by reducing extracellular 5-HT via monoamine neurotransmitter pathways [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR39">39</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR40">40</xref>].</p><p id="Par110">The last but not least, endothelial function is another key factor, as even slight reductions in cerebral blood flow can impair cognitive and affective functions [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>]. VaDep is linked to decreased regional cerebral blood flow and overall cerebrovascular dysfunction [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR41">41</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR42">42</xref>]. VEGF may help by promoting angiogenesis and improving cerebral perfusion, thus alleviating VaDep symptoms.</p><p id="Par111">Although the TMT-B test, representing executive function, was not included in the final model, it ranked ninth in SHAP analysis, indicating its diagnostic significance for VaDep. Clinically, VaDep patients often have executive and information processing deficits, with relatively mild depressive symptoms [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR43">43</xref>]. The &#x0201c;depression-executive dysfunction syndrome&#x0201d; concept further emphasizes the key role of executive dysfunction in VaDep assessment [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR44">44</xref>].</p><p id="Par112">The differences in feature contributions seen in the SHAP analysis can be understood pathophysiologically. WMH scores most strongly influenced model predictions, supporting the idea that frontal-subcortical structural damage disrupts emotion regulation, leading to core depressive symptoms in VaDep [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>]. As irreversible microvascular injury, WMH impairs functional networks more than systemic inflammatory markers, which reflect broader physiological states but may not directly indicate brain damage. Inflammatory and neurotrophic markers mainly affect disease progression and vulnerability, not direct anatomical links to depressive symptoms. Thus, WMH&#x02019;s greater impact underscores the key role of focal cerebrovascular injuries in VaDep. Our results also suggest that chronic vascular injury (WMH, lacunes) induces neuroinflammation (IL-6, TNF-&#x003b1;) and reduces neurotrophic support (BDNF, VEGF), together worsening emotional and cognitive decline.</p><p id="Par113">Therefore, these clinical variables, when combined, offer a superior diagnostic model than any single marker could. This integration not only enhances our understanding of VaDep mechanisms but also provides robust evidence for identifying potential therapeutic targets, further validating the model&#x02019;s effectiveness in clinical settings.</p><p id="Par114">Many models exist for diagnosing depression and predicting treatment outcomes. Some use graph theory to study disrupted brain networks in depression, focusing on the default mode, affective, visual, and cerebellar networks [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR45">45</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR46">46</xref>]. Changes in resting-state network activity may predict treatment response [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR47">47</xref>]. However, no ML models specifically target the diagnosis of VaDep to date. While models for late-life depression (LLD) exist, VaDep represents a distinct clinical entity characterized by a prominent vascular contribution to affective symptoms, differing in etiology, imaging features, and biological underpinnings from typical LLD.</p><p id="Par115">Previous studies on LLD have used ML to improve diagnosis or predict outcomes. For example, Patel et al. combined multimodal MRI and clinical data to predict LLD diagnosis and treatment response [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR48">48</xref>]; Grzenda et al. showed that integrating MRI volumetric and clinical variables improves remission prediction [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR49">49</xref>]; and Lin et al. applied deep learning to resting-state fMRI to distinguish LLD from healthy controls [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR50">50</xref>]. However, these studies focus on general depressive symptoms in older adults, not specifically on vascular pathology. In contrast, our study targets early VaDep identification using an interpretable LGBM model based on clinical, biological, and neuroimaging markers of vascular injury. Thus, we establish the first ML framework specifically for VaDep diagnosis, fundamentally differing from LLD models in disease focus, feature selection, and clinical application.</p><p id="Par116">ML is often seen as a &#x0201c;black box&#x0201d; due to limited transparency in classification processes. In our study, SHAP offers a global explanation of model behavior, improving understanding for clinical use [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR51">51</xref>]. SHAP, a game-theoretic method, assigns each feature an importance value based on its average marginal contribution across all feature combinations. It treats classification as a cooperative effect among features, ensuring key features have higher values. The sum of SHAP values equals the difference between the model&#x02019;s output and the baseline (local accuracy). Unlike standard regression, SHAP interprets complex, non-linear interactions in ML models. This robust framework helps clinicians and researchers identify both the most important features and their influence on individual classifications [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR52">52</xref>].</p><p id="Par117">We acknowledge several limitations. First, our model was built on Chinese populations, so its global generalizability is uncertain. However, our multi-center dataset and external validation increase clinical evidence for broader application. Still, further regional and longitudinal validations are needed for consistency. Second, ML models require large datasets, yet there is no standard for calculating necessary sample sizes. For binary healthcare classification, several hundred labeled cases may suffice [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR53">53</xref>]. Although our sample size was modest, extensive cross-validation and external validation support its adequacy for reliable VaDep diagnosis. Third, overfitting remains a risk. While we used fivefold cross-validation, external validation, and LGBM&#x02019;s built-in controls like early stopping and feature subsampling, explicit regularization was not applied. Fourth, we did not analyze diagnostic accuracy across subgroups (e.g., symptom severity), so model performance differences by demographic or clinical factors were not assessed. Future studies with larger, more diverse samples are needed to test generalizability and subgroup performance. Finally, our model identifies VaDep but does not predict its future occurrence. Prospective cohorts and ML methods are needed to forecast VaDep onset and progression. Future research should also incorporate more MRI modalities and advanced algorithms to better detect early VaDep changes and develop new interventions.</p><p id="Par118">In the future, the model in our study holds promise as a clinical decision-support tool, which could be integrated into electronic medical record (EMR) systems or developed into a standalone web-based application or software program. Such a system would allow users to input the required feature values and instantly obtain a diagnostic probability for VaDep, thereby facilitating early screening and individualized risk assessment. Nevertheless, further large-scale, multicenter, and prospective validations are necessary before clinical deployment.</p></sec><sec id="Sec27"><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par119">In conclusion, we have successfully developed an explainable machine learning model to diagnose VaDep in older adults, utilizing comprehensive clinical data. This model enhances clinical applicability by requiring fewer input variables, yet maintains excellent diagnostic capabilities in both internal and external validations. SHAP analysis has highlighted key features that significantly contribute to the diagnosis of VaDep, offering new insights for the further exploration of associated risk factors and pathophysiological processes. Importantly, due to its consistent diagnostic performance and user-friendly attributes, our model demonstrates considerable potential for clinical application and may serve as a valuable adjunct to current diagnostic practices for VaDep. However, further prospective studies and real-world clinical validation are warranted to confirm its generalizability and practical utility. In the future, it is imperative that more focus be placed on the identification and intervention of VaDep to improve the overall affective health of the older population.</p></sec><sec id="Sec28" sec-type="supplementary-material"><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>
<supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM1"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4283_MOESM1_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Additional file 1: Table S1. All variables and associated data missing rate. Table S2. Group comparison of variables with more than 20% missing data. Figure S1. Multicollinearity test for the initial variables. Figure S2. ML methodological workflow. Table S3. Clinical characteristics of external validation dataset. Table S4. Preliminary screening of ML models through the lazypredict algorithms. Table S5. Performance measures of the top six ML algorithms for the VaDep diagnosis. Figure S3. The SHAP values of LGBM models. Figure S4. The SHAP values of XGB models. Figure S5. The SHAP values of RF models. Figure S6. The SHAP values of Adaboost models. Figure S7. The SHAP values of ET models. Figure S8. The SHAP values of Bagging models. Figure S9. Contrast between SHAP and permutation importance analyses in LGBM model. Figure S10. Contrast between SHAP and permutation importance analyses in RF model. Figure S11. Contrast between SHAP and permutation importance analyses in XGB model. Table S6. The AUROC of the top six ML algorithms with varied numbers of features. Table S7. The performance metrics of the LGBM model with varied numbers of features. Table S8. Performance comparison of final model in external validation and internal training. Table S9. Spearman correlation analysis between features of final model and depression scores. Table S10. Clinical implications for all performance metrics of machine learning model.</p></caption></media></supplementary-material></p></sec></body><back><glossary><title>Abbreviations</title><def-list><def-item><term>Adaboost</term><def><p id="Par12">Adaptive Boosting</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>AI</term><def><p id="Par13">Artificial intelligence</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>AUPR</term><def><p id="Par14">Area under the precision-recall curve</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>AUROC</term><def><p id="Par15">Area under the receiver operating curve</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>BDNF</term><def><p id="Par16">Brain-derived neurotrophic factor</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>BMI</term><def><p id="Par17">Body mass index</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CRP</term><def><p id="Par18">C-reactive protein</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CSVD</term><def><p id="Par19">Cerebral small vessel disease</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CVD</term><def><p id="Par20">Cerebral vessel disease</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>DED</term><def><p id="Par21">Depression-executive dysfunction syndrome</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ELISA</term><def><p id="Par22">Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>EMR</term><def><p id="Par23">Electronic medical record</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ET</term><def><p id="Par24">Extra Trees</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>FDR</term><def><p id="Par25">False discovery rate</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>FLAIR</term><def><p id="Par26">Fluid-attenuated inversion recovery</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>FOV</term><def><p id="Par27">Field of view</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>FSRP</term><def><p id="Par28">Framingham stroke risk profile</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>GABA</term><def><p id="Par29">Gamma-aminobutyric acid</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>GDS-30</term><def><p id="Par30">Geriatric depression scale-30</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>HDL-C</term><def><p id="Par31">High-density lipoprotein cholesterol</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>IL-6</term><def><p id="Par32">Interleukin 6</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>LDL-C</term><def><p id="Par33">Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>LGBM</term><def><p id="Par34">Light Gradient Boosting Machine</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>LLD</term><def><p id="Par35">Late-life depression</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ML</term><def><p id="Par36">Machine learning</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MRI</term><def><p id="Par37">Magnetic resonance imaging</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PDGFR-&#x003b2;</term><def><p id="Par38">Platelet-derived growth factor receptor-beta</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>RF</term><def><p id="Par39">Random Forest</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ROC</term><def><p id="Par40">Receiver operating characteristic</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PR</term><def><p id="Par41">Precision-recall</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>SHAP</term><def><p id="Par42">SHapley Additive exPlanations</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>TC</term><def><p id="Par43">Total cholesterol</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>TE</term><def><p id="Par44">Echo time</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>TG</term><def><p id="Par45">Triglycerides</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>TI</term><def><p id="Par46">Inversion time</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>TMT-B</term><def><p id="Par47">Trail Making Test-B</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>TNF-&#x003b1;</term><def><p id="Par48">Tumor necrosis factor-alpha</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>TR</term><def><p id="Par49">Reception time</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>VaDep</term><def><p id="Par50">Vascular depression</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>VEGF</term><def><p id="Par51">Vascular endothelial growth factor</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>VST</term><def><p id="Par52">Victoria Stroop Test</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>WMH</term><def><p id="Par53">White matter hyperintensity</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>XGB</term><def><p id="Par54">Extreme Gradient Boosting</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>5-HT</term><def><p id="Par55">Serotonin</p></def></def-item></def-list></glossary><fn-group><fn><p><bold>Publisher's Note</bold></p><p>Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.</p></fn><fn><p>Ran Zhang and Tian Li contributed equally to this work as co-first authors.</p></fn></fn-group><ack><title>Acknowledgements
</title><p>The authors extend their gratitude to all participants and their families for their involvement in this study. And special thanks to Dr. Jiangtao Yu for his invaluable assistance in generating the figures from the Emergency Center at Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University.</p></ack><notes notes-type="author-contribution"><title>Authors&#x02019;&#x000a0;contributions
</title><p>RZ, TL, HS and JZ contributed to the conception and design of the study. FF, HS and HH contributed to the construction of ML model. RZ and TL contributed to the analysis of ML and statistical analysis. LL, DS, ZX, SP, XP and ML contributed to the data collection and establishment of the database from multi-center hospitals. JC, JX and LL contributed to the neuropsychological and clinical assessments. RZ and TL contributed to drafting the text and preparing the figures. HS, FF and JZ contributed to reviewing and revising the manuscript. All authors have read and approved the final manuscript, and accept responsibility for the submission for publication. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.</p></notes><notes notes-type="funding-information"><title>Funding</title><p>This research was supported by the National Key R&#x00026;D Program of China (2021YFC2500102), the Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University Medical Science and Technology Innovation Platform Support Project (PTXM2020006), and Hubei Provincial Clinical Research Center for Dementia and Cognitive Impairment (PTYX2024024).</p></notes><notes notes-type="data-availability"><title>Data availability</title><p>The datasets and full study protocol used and analyzed during the current study are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.</p></notes><notes><title>Declarations</title><notes id="FPar2"><title>Ethics approval and consent to participate</title><p id="Par120">This study was performed with ethical approval of the Ethics Committee (ClinicalTrials.gov; ID: NCT04999813) and the Medical Ethics Committee, Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University (ID: 2020124). All participants provided written informed consent in line with the Declaration of Helsinki.</p></notes><notes id="FPar3"><title>Consent for publication</title><p id="Par121">Not applicable.</p></notes><notes id="FPar4" notes-type="COI-statement"><title>Competing interests
</title><p id="Par122">The authors declare no competing interests.</p></notes></notes><ref-list id="Bib1"><title>References</title><ref id="CR1"><label>1.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR1" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Aizenstein</surname><given-names>HJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Baskys</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Boldrini</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Butters</surname><given-names>MA</given-names></name><name><surname>Diniz</surname><given-names>BS</given-names></name><name><surname>Jaiswal</surname><given-names>MK</given-names></name><name><surname>Jellinger</surname><given-names>KA</given-names></name><name><surname>Kruglov</surname><given-names>LS</given-names></name><name><surname>Meshandin</surname><given-names>IA</given-names></name><name><surname>Mijajlovic</surname><given-names>MD</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Vascular depression consensus report - a critical update</article-title><source>BMC Med</source><year>2016</year><volume>14</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>161</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27806704</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR1" publication-type="journal">Aizenstein HJ, Baskys A, Boldrini M, Butters MA, Diniz BS, Jaiswal MK, Jellinger KA, Kruglov LS, Meshandin IA, Mijajlovic MD, et al. Vascular depression consensus report - a critical update. BMC Med. 2016;14(1):161.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27806704</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR2"><label>2.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR2" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Alexopoulos</surname><given-names>GS</given-names></name><name><surname>Meyers</surname><given-names>BS</given-names></name><name><surname>Young</surname><given-names>RC</given-names></name><name><surname>Campbell</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Silbersweig</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Charlson</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>&#x02018;Vascular depression&#x02019; hypothesis</article-title><source>Arch Gen Psychiatry</source><year>1997</year><volume>54</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>915</fpage><lpage>922</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">9337771</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR2" publication-type="journal">Alexopoulos GS, Meyers BS, Young RC, Campbell S, Silbersweig D, Charlson M. &#x0201c;Vascular depression&#x0201d; hypothesis. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1997;54(10):915&#x02013;22.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">9337771</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR3"><label>3.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR3" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Gonz&#x000e1;lez</surname><given-names>HM</given-names></name><name><surname>Tarraf</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Whitfield</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Gallo</surname><given-names>JJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Vascular depression prevalence and epidemiology in the United States</article-title><source>J Psychiatr Res</source><year>2012</year><volume>46</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>456</fpage><lpage>461</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22277303</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR3" publication-type="journal">Gonz&#x000e1;lez HM, Tarraf W, Whitfield K, Gallo JJ. Vascular depression prevalence and epidemiology in the United States. J Psychiatr Res. 2012;46(4):456&#x02013;61.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22277303</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR4"><label>4.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR4" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Steffens</surname><given-names>DC</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Vascular depression: is an old research construct finally ready for clinical prime time?</article-title><source>Biol Psychiatry</source><year>2019</year><volume>85</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>441</fpage><lpage>442</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30777170</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR4" publication-type="journal">Steffens DC. Vascular depression: is an old research construct finally ready for clinical prime time? Biol Psychiatry. 2019;85(6):441&#x02013;2.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30777170</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR5"><label>5.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR5" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Taylor</surname><given-names>WD</given-names></name><name><surname>Schultz</surname><given-names>SK</given-names></name><name><surname>Panaite</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Steffens</surname><given-names>DC</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Perspectives on the management of vascular depression</article-title><source>Am J Psychiatry</source><year>2018</year><volume>175</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>1169</fpage><lpage>1175</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30501416</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR5" publication-type="journal">Taylor WD, Schultz SK, Panaite V, Steffens DC. Perspectives on the management of vascular depression. Am J Psychiatry. 2018;175(12):1169&#x02013;75.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30501416</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR6"><label>6.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR6" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Rushia</surname><given-names>SN</given-names></name><name><surname>Shehab</surname><given-names>AAS</given-names></name><name><surname>Motter</surname><given-names>JN</given-names></name><name><surname>Egglefield</surname><given-names>DA</given-names></name><name><surname>Schiff</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Sneed</surname><given-names>JR</given-names></name><name><surname>Garcon</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Vascular depression for radiology: a review of the construct, methodology, and diagnosis</article-title><source>World J Radiol</source><year>2020</year><volume>12</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>48</fpage><lpage>67</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32549954</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR6" publication-type="journal">Rushia SN, Shehab AAS, Motter JN, Egglefield DA, Schiff S, Sneed JR, Garcon E. Vascular depression for radiology: a review of the construct, methodology, and diagnosis. World J Radiol. 2020;12(5):48&#x02013;67.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32549954</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR7"><label>7.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR7" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>de la Torre-Luque</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Ayuso-Mateos</surname><given-names>JL</given-names></name><name><surname>Sanchez-Carro</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>de la Fuente</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Lopez-Garcia</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Inflammatory and metabolic disturbances are associated with more severe trajectories of late-life depression</article-title><source>Psychoneuroendocrinology</source><year>2019</year><volume>110</volume><fpage>104443</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31610452</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR7" publication-type="journal">de la Torre-Luque A, Ayuso-Mateos JL, Sanchez-Carro Y, de la Fuente J, Lopez-Garcia P. Inflammatory and metabolic disturbances are associated with more severe trajectories of late-life depression. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2019;110: 104443.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31610452</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR8"><label>8.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR8" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Rozing</surname><given-names>MP</given-names></name><name><surname>Veerhuis</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Westendorp</surname><given-names>RGJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Eikelenboom</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Stek</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Marijnissen</surname><given-names>RM</given-names></name><name><surname>Oude Voshaar</surname><given-names>RC</given-names></name><name><surname>Comijs</surname><given-names>HC</given-names></name><name><surname>van Exel</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Inflammation in older subjects with early- and late-onset depression in the NESDO study: a cross-sectional and longitudinal case-only design</article-title><source>Psychoneuroendocrinology</source><year>2019</year><volume>99</volume><fpage>20</fpage><lpage>7</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30172071</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR8" publication-type="journal">Rozing MP, Veerhuis R, Westendorp RGJ, Eikelenboom P, Stek M, Marijnissen RM, Oude Voshaar RC, Comijs HC, van Exel E. Inflammation in older subjects with early- and late-onset depression in the NESDO study: a cross-sectional and longitudinal case-only design. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2019;99:20&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30172071</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR9"><label>9.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR9" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>JM</given-names></name><name><surname>Stewart</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>JW</given-names></name><name><surname>Kang</surname><given-names>HJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Bae</surname><given-names>KY</given-names></name><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>SW</given-names></name><name><surname>Shin</surname><given-names>IS</given-names></name><name><surname>Yoon</surname><given-names>JS</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Changes in pro-inflammatory cytokine levels and late-life depression: a two year population based longitudinal study</article-title><source>Psychoneuroendocrinology</source><year>2018</year><volume>90</volume><fpage>85</fpage><lpage>91</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29471232</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR9" publication-type="journal">Kim JM, Stewart R, Kim JW, Kang HJ, Bae KY, Kim SW, Shin IS, Yoon JS. Changes in pro-inflammatory cytokine levels and late-life depression: a two year population based longitudinal study. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2018;90:85&#x02013;91.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29471232</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR10"><label>10.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR10" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>van Agtmaal</surname><given-names>MJM</given-names></name><name><surname>Houben</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Pouwer</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Stehouwer</surname><given-names>CDA</given-names></name><name><surname>Schram</surname><given-names>MT</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Association of microvascular dysfunction with late-life depression: a systematic review and meta-analysis</article-title><source>JAMA Psychiat</source><year>2017</year><volume>74</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>729</fpage><lpage>739</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR10" publication-type="journal">van Agtmaal MJM, Houben A, Pouwer F, Stehouwer CDA, Schram MT. Association of microvascular dysfunction with late-life depression: a systematic review and meta-analysis. JAMA Psychiat. 2017;74(7):729&#x02013;39.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR11"><label>11.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR11" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Geraets</surname><given-names>AFJ</given-names></name><name><surname>van Agtmaal</surname><given-names>MJM</given-names></name><name><surname>Stehouwer</surname><given-names>CDA</given-names></name><name><surname>S&#x000f6;rensen</surname><given-names>BM</given-names></name><name><surname>Berendschot</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Webers</surname><given-names>CAB</given-names></name><name><surname>Schaper</surname><given-names>NC</given-names></name><name><surname>Henry</surname><given-names>RMA</given-names></name><name><surname>van der Kallen</surname><given-names>CJH</given-names></name><name><surname>Eussen</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association of markers of microvascular dysfunction with prevalent and incident depressive symptoms: the Maastricht study</article-title><source>Hypertension</source><year>2020</year><volume>76</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>342</fpage><lpage>349</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32639880</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR11" publication-type="journal">Geraets AFJ, van Agtmaal MJM, Stehouwer CDA, S&#x000f6;rensen BM, Berendschot T, Webers CAB, Schaper NC, Henry RMA, van der Kallen CJH, Eussen S, et al. Association of markers of microvascular dysfunction with prevalent and incident depressive symptoms: the Maastricht study. Hypertension. 2020;76(2):342&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32639880</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR12"><label>12.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR12" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Noorbakhsh-Sabet</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Zand</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Abedi</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Artificial intelligence transforms the future of health care</article-title><source>Am J Med</source><year>2019</year><volume>132</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>795</fpage><lpage>801</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30710543</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR12" publication-type="journal">Noorbakhsh-Sabet N, Zand R, Zhang Y, Abedi V. Artificial intelligence transforms the future of health care. Am J Med. 2019;132(7):795&#x02013;801.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30710543</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR13"><label>13.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR13" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sajjadian</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Lam</surname><given-names>RW</given-names></name><name><surname>Milev</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Rotzinger</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Frey</surname><given-names>BN</given-names></name><name><surname>Soares</surname><given-names>CN</given-names></name><name><surname>Parikh</surname><given-names>SV</given-names></name><name><surname>Foster</surname><given-names>JA</given-names></name><name><surname>Turecki</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>M&#x000fc;ller</surname><given-names>DJ</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Machine learning in the prediction of depression treatment outcomes: a systematic review and meta-analysis</article-title><source>Psychol Med</source><year>2021</year><volume>51</volume><issue>16</issue><fpage>2742</fpage><lpage>51</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35575607</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR13" publication-type="journal">Sajjadian M, Lam RW, Milev R, Rotzinger S, Frey BN, Soares CN, Parikh SV, Foster JA, Turecki G, M&#x000fc;ller DJ, et al. Machine learning in the prediction of depression treatment outcomes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Psychol Med. 2021;51(16):2742&#x02013;51.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35575607</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR14"><label>14.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR14" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zeng</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhu</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Gao</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Xia</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Jia</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Severity of white matter hyperintensities: Lesion patterns, cognition, and microstructural changes</article-title><source>J Cereb Blood Flow Metab</source><year>2020</year><volume>40</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>2454</fpage><lpage>2463</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31865841</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR14" publication-type="journal">Zeng W, Chen Y, Zhu Z, Gao S, Xia J, Chen X, Jia J, Zhang Z. Severity of white matter hyperintensities: Lesion patterns, cognition, and microstructural changes. J Cereb Blood Flow Metab. 2020;40(12):2454&#x02013;63.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31865841</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR15"><label>15.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR15" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wardlaw</surname><given-names>JM</given-names></name><name><surname>Smith</surname><given-names>EE</given-names></name><name><surname>Biessels</surname><given-names>GJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Cordonnier</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Fazekas</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Frayne</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Lindley</surname><given-names>RI</given-names></name><name><surname>O'Brien</surname><given-names>JT</given-names></name><name><surname>Barkhof</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Benavente</surname><given-names>OR</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Neuroimaging standards for research into small vessel disease and its contribution to ageing and neurodegeneration</article-title><source>Lancet Neurol</source><year>2013</year><volume>12</volume><issue>8</issue><fpage>822</fpage><lpage>838</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23867200</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR15" publication-type="journal">Wardlaw JM, Smith EE, Biessels GJ, Cordonnier C, Fazekas F, Frayne R, Lindley RI, O&#x02019;Brien JT, Barkhof F, Benavente OR, et al. Neuroimaging standards for research into small vessel disease and its contribution to ageing and neurodegeneration. Lancet Neurol. 2013;12(8):822&#x02013;38.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23867200</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR16"><label>16.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR16" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lundberg</surname><given-names>SM</given-names></name><name><surname>Erion</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>DeGrave</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Prutkin</surname><given-names>JM</given-names></name><name><surname>Nair</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Katz</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Himmelfarb</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Bansal</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>SI</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>From local explanations to global understanding with explainable AI for trees</article-title><source>Nat Mach Intell</source><year>2020</year><volume>2</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>56</fpage><lpage>67</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32607472</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR16" publication-type="journal">Lundberg SM, Erion G, Chen H, DeGrave A, Prutkin JM, Nair B, Katz R, Himmelfarb J, Bansal N, Lee SI. From local explanations to global understanding with explainable AI for trees. Nat Mach Intell. 2020;2(1):56&#x02013;67.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32607472</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR17"><label>17.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR17" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>You</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>YR</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>HF</given-names></name><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Feng</surname><given-names>JF</given-names></name><name><surname>Yu</surname><given-names>JT</given-names></name><name><surname>Cheng</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Development of a novel dementia risk prediction model in the general population: a large, longitudinal, population-based machine-learning study</article-title><source>EClinicalMedicine</source><year>2022</year><volume>53</volume><fpage>101665</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36187723</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR17" publication-type="journal">You J, Zhang YR, Wang HF, Yang M, Feng JF, Yu JT, Cheng W. Development of a novel dementia risk prediction model in the general population: a large, longitudinal, population-based machine-learning study. EClinicalMedicine. 2022;53: 101665.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36187723</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR18"><label>18.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR18" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Xue</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Kowshik</surname><given-names>SS</given-names></name><name><surname>Lteif</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Puducheri</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Jasodanand</surname><given-names>VH</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhou</surname><given-names>OT</given-names></name><name><surname>Walia</surname><given-names>AS</given-names></name><name><surname>Guney</surname><given-names>OB</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>JD</given-names></name><name><surname>Po&#x000e9;sy</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>AI-based differential diagnosis of dementia etiologies on multimodal data</article-title><source>Nat Med</source><year>2024</year><volume>30</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>2977</fpage><lpage>2989</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38965435</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR18" publication-type="journal">Xue C, Kowshik SS, Lteif D, Puducheri S, Jasodanand VH, Zhou OT, Walia AS, Guney OB, Zhang JD, Po&#x000e9;sy S, et al. AI-based differential diagnosis of dementia etiologies on multimodal data. Nat Med. 2024;30(10):2977&#x02013;89.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38965435</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR19"><label>19.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR19" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Taylor</surname><given-names>WD</given-names></name><name><surname>Aizenstein</surname><given-names>HJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Alexopoulos</surname><given-names>GS</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The vascular depression hypothesis: mechanisms linking vascular disease with depression</article-title><source>Mol Psychiatry</source><year>2013</year><volume>18</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>963</fpage><lpage>974</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23439482</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR19" publication-type="journal">Taylor WD, Aizenstein HJ, Alexopoulos GS. The vascular depression hypothesis: mechanisms linking vascular disease with depression. Mol Psychiatry. 2013;18(9):963&#x02013;74.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23439482</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR20"><label>20.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR20" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Goecks</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Jalili</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Heiser</surname><given-names>LM</given-names></name><name><surname>Gray</surname><given-names>JW</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>How machine learning will transform biomedicine</article-title><source>Cell</source><year>2020</year><volume>181</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>92</fpage><lpage>101</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32243801</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR20" publication-type="journal">Goecks J, Jalili V, Heiser LM, Gray JW. How machine learning will transform biomedicine. Cell. 2020;181(1):92&#x02013;101.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32243801</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR21"><label>21.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR21" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Feng</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Ye</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Gao</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Lin</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Ouyang</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Prediction of lipid nanoparticles for mRNA vaccines by the machine learning algorithm</article-title><source>Acta Pharm Sin B</source><year>2022</year><volume>12</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>2950</fpage><lpage>2962</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35755271</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR21" publication-type="journal">Wang W, Feng S, Ye Z, Gao H, Lin J, Ouyang D. Prediction of lipid nanoparticles for mRNA vaccines by the machine learning algorithm. Acta Pharm Sin B. 2022;12(6):2950&#x02013;62.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35755271</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR22"><label>22.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR22" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Qi</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Fang</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Jia</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Lin</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Yuan</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Machine learning and SHAP value interpretation for predicting comorbidity of cardiovascular disease and cancer with dietary antioxidants</article-title><source>Redox Biol</source><year>2025</year><volume>79</volume><fpage>103470</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39700695</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR22" publication-type="journal">Qi X, Wang S, Fang C, Jia J, Lin L, Yuan T. Machine learning and SHAP value interpretation for predicting comorbidity of cardiovascular disease and cancer with dietary antioxidants. Redox Biol. 2025;79: 103470.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39700695</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR23"><label>23.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR23" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Song</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Yuan</surname><given-names>Q</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Gu</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Machine learning algorithms to predict mild cognitive impairment in older adults in China: a cross-sectional study</article-title><source>J Affect Disord</source><year>2025</year><volume>368</volume><fpage>117</fpage><lpage>126</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39271065</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR23" publication-type="journal">Song Y, Yuan Q, Liu H, Gu K, Liu Y. Machine learning algorithms to predict mild cognitive impairment in older adults in China: a cross-sectional study. J Affect Disord. 2025;368:117&#x02013;26.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39271065</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR24"><label>24.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR24" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sun</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Lei</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Mao</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Kang</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Sun</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhou</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Prediction of sepsis among patients with major trauma using artificial intelligence: a multicenter validated cohort study</article-title><source>Int J Surg</source><year>2025</year><volume>111</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>467</fpage><lpage>480</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38920319</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR24" publication-type="journal">Sun B, Lei M, Wang L, Wang X, Li X, Mao Z, Kang H, Liu H, Sun S, Zhou F. Prediction of sepsis among patients with major trauma using artificial intelligence: a multicenter validated cohort study. Int J Surg. 2025;111(1):467&#x02013;80.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38920319</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR25"><label>25.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR25" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>You</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Kang</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Yu</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Cheng</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Feng</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Prediction of future Parkinson disease using plasma proteins combined with clinical-demographic measures</article-title><source>Neurology</source><year>2024</year><volume>103</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>e209531</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38976826</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR25" publication-type="journal">You J, Wang L, Wang Y, Kang J, Yu J, Cheng W, Feng J. Prediction of future Parkinson disease using plasma proteins combined with clinical-demographic measures. Neurology. 2024;103(3): e209531.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38976826</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR26"><label>26.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR26" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Yan</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Cheng</surname><given-names>Q</given-names></name><name><surname>Jiang</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Q</given-names></name><name><surname>Xiao</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Ma</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Yan</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>LightGBM: accelerated genomically designed crop breeding through ensemble learning</article-title><source>Genome Biol</source><year>2021</year><volume>22</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>271</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34544450</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR26" publication-type="journal">Yan J, Xu Y, Cheng Q, Jiang S, Wang Q, Xiao Y, Ma C, Yan J, Wang X. LightGBM: accelerated genomically designed crop breeding through ensemble learning. Genome Biol. 2021;22(1): 271.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34544450</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR27"><label>27.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR27" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Sperrin</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Ashcroft</surname><given-names>DM</given-names></name><name><surname>van Staa</surname><given-names>TP</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Consistency of variety of machine learning and statistical models in predicting clinical risks of individual patients: longitudinal cohort study using cardiovascular disease as exemplar</article-title><source>BMJ</source><year>2020</year><volume>371</volume><fpage>m3919</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33148619</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR27" publication-type="journal">Li Y, Sperrin M, Ashcroft DM, van Staa TP. Consistency of variety of machine learning and statistical models in predicting clinical risks of individual patients: longitudinal cohort study using cardiovascular disease as exemplar. BMJ. 2020;371: m3919.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33148619</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR28"><label>28.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR28" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Teodorczuk</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Firbank</surname><given-names>MJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Pantoni</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Poggesi</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Erkinjuntti</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Wallin</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Wahlund</surname><given-names>LO</given-names></name><name><surname>Scheltens</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Waldemar</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Schrotter</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Relationship between baseline white-matter changes and development of late-life depressive symptoms: 3-year results from the LADIS study</article-title><source>Psychol Med</source><year>2010</year><volume>40</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>603</fpage><lpage>10</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">19671212</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR28" publication-type="journal">Teodorczuk A, Firbank MJ, Pantoni L, Poggesi A, Erkinjuntti T, Wallin A, Wahlund LO, Scheltens P, Waldemar G, Schrotter G, et al. Relationship between baseline white-matter changes and development of late-life depressive symptoms: 3-year results from the LADIS study. Psychol Med. 2010;40(4):603&#x02013;10.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">19671212</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR29"><label>29.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR29" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Firbank</surname><given-names>MJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Teodorczuk</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>van der Flier</surname><given-names>WM</given-names></name><name><surname>Gouw</surname><given-names>AA</given-names></name><name><surname>Wallin</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Erkinjuntti</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Inzitari</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Wahlund</surname><given-names>LO</given-names></name><name><surname>Pantoni</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Poggesi</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Relationship between progression of brain white matter changes and late-life depression: 3-year results from the LADIS study</article-title><source>Br J Psychiatry</source><year>2012</year><volume>201</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>40</fpage><lpage>5</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22626634</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR29" publication-type="journal">Firbank MJ, Teodorczuk A, van der Flier WM, Gouw AA, Wallin A, Erkinjuntti T, Inzitari D, Wahlund LO, Pantoni L, Poggesi A, et al. Relationship between progression of brain white matter changes and late-life depression: 3-year results from the LADIS study. Br J Psychiatry. 2012;201(1):40&#x02013;5.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22626634</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR30"><label>30.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR30" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Park</surname><given-names>JH</given-names></name><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>SB</given-names></name><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>JJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Yoon</surname><given-names>JC</given-names></name><name><surname>Han</surname><given-names>JW</given-names></name><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>TH</given-names></name><name><surname>Jeong</surname><given-names>HG</given-names></name><name><surname>Newhouse</surname><given-names>PA</given-names></name><name><surname>Taylor</surname><given-names>WD</given-names></name><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>JH</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Epidemiology of MRI-defined vascular depression: a longitudinal, community-based study in Korean elders</article-title><source>J Affect Disord</source><year>2015</year><volume>180</volume><fpage>200</fpage><lpage>6</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25913805</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR30" publication-type="journal">Park JH, Lee SB, Lee JJ, Yoon JC, Han JW, Kim TH, Jeong HG, Newhouse PA, Taylor WD, Kim JH, et al. Epidemiology of MRI-defined vascular depression: a longitudinal, community-based study in Korean elders. J Affect Disord. 2015;180:200&#x02013;6.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25913805</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR31"><label>31.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR31" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Dalby</surname><given-names>RB</given-names></name><name><surname>Chakravarty</surname><given-names>MM</given-names></name><name><surname>Ahdidan</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>S&#x000f8;rensen</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Frandsen</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Jonsdottir</surname><given-names>KY</given-names></name><name><surname>Tehrani</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Rosenberg</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Ostergaard</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Videbech</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Localization of white-matter lesions and effect of vascular risk factors in late-onset major depression</article-title><source>Psychol Med</source><year>2010</year><volume>40</volume><issue>8</issue><fpage>1389</fpage><lpage>1399</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">19895719</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR31" publication-type="journal">Dalby RB, Chakravarty MM, Ahdidan J, S&#x000f8;rensen L, Frandsen J, Jonsdottir KY, Tehrani E, Rosenberg R, Ostergaard L, Videbech P. Localization of white-matter lesions and effect of vascular risk factors in late-onset major depression. Psychol Med. 2010;40(8):1389&#x02013;99.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">19895719</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR32"><label>32.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR32" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Qiu</surname><given-names>WQ</given-names></name><name><surname>Himali</surname><given-names>JJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Wolf</surname><given-names>PA</given-names></name><name><surname>DeCarli</surname><given-names>DC</given-names></name><name><surname>Beiser</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Au</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Effects of white matter integrity and brain volumes on late life depression in the Framingham Heart Study</article-title><source>Int J Geriatr Psychiatry</source><year>2017</year><volume>32</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>214</fpage><lpage>21</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27059548</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR32" publication-type="journal">Qiu WQ, Himali JJ, Wolf PA, DeCarli DC, Beiser A, Au R. Effects of white matter integrity and brain volumes on late life depression in the Framingham Heart Study. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2017;32(2):214&#x02013;21.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27059548</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR33"><label>33.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR33" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Empana</surname><given-names>JP</given-names></name><name><surname>Boutouyrie</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Lemogne</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Jouven</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>van Sloten</surname><given-names>TT</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Microvascular contribution to late-onset depression: mechanisms, current evidence, association with other brain diseases, and therapeutic perspectives</article-title><source>Biol Psychiatry</source><year>2021</year><volume>90</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>214</fpage><lpage>25</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34325805</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR33" publication-type="journal">Empana JP, Boutouyrie P, Lemogne C, Jouven X, van Sloten TT. Microvascular contribution to late-onset depression: mechanisms, current evidence, association with other brain diseases, and therapeutic perspectives. Biol Psychiatry. 2021;90(4):214&#x02013;25.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34325805</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR34"><label>34.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR34" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Erickson</surname><given-names>KI</given-names></name><name><surname>Miller</surname><given-names>DL</given-names></name><name><surname>Roecklein</surname><given-names>KA</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The aging hippocampus: interactions between exercise, depression, and BDNF</article-title><source>Neuroscientist</source><year>2012</year><volume>18</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>82</fpage><lpage>97</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21531985</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR34" publication-type="journal">Erickson KI, Miller DL, Roecklein KA. The aging hippocampus: interactions between exercise, depression, and BDNF. Neuroscientist. 2012;18(1):82&#x02013;97.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21531985</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR35"><label>35.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR35" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kuo</surname><given-names>CY</given-names></name><name><surname>Lin</surname><given-names>CH</given-names></name><name><surname>Lane</surname><given-names>HY</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Molecular basis of late-life depression</article-title><source>Int J Mol Sci</source><year>2021</year><volume>22</volume><issue>14</issue><fpage>7421</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34299040</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR35" publication-type="journal">Kuo CY, Lin CH, Lane HY. Molecular basis of late-life depression. Int J Mol Sci. 2021;22(14): 7421.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34299040</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR36"><label>36.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR36" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Alexopoulos</surname><given-names>GS</given-names></name><name><surname>Morimoto</surname><given-names>SS</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The inflammation hypothesis in geriatric depression</article-title><source>Int J Geriatr Psychiatry</source><year>2011</year><volume>26</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>1109</fpage><lpage>1118</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21370276</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR36" publication-type="journal">Alexopoulos GS, Morimoto SS. The inflammation hypothesis in geriatric depression. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2011;26(11):1109&#x02013;18.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21370276</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR37"><label>37.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR37" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Penninx</surname><given-names>BW</given-names></name><name><surname>Kritchevsky</surname><given-names>SB</given-names></name><name><surname>Yaffe</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Newman</surname><given-names>AB</given-names></name><name><surname>Simonsick</surname><given-names>EM</given-names></name><name><surname>Rubin</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Ferrucci</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Harris</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Pahor</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Inflammatory markers and depressed mood in older persons: results from the health, aging and body composition study</article-title><source>Biol Psychiatry</source><year>2003</year><volume>54</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>566</fpage><lpage>572</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">12946885</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR37" publication-type="journal">Penninx BW, Kritchevsky SB, Yaffe K, Newman AB, Simonsick EM, Rubin S, Ferrucci L, Harris T, Pahor M. Inflammatory markers and depressed mood in older persons: results from the health, aging and body composition study. Biol Psychiatry. 2003;54(5):566&#x02013;72.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">12946885</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR38"><label>38.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR38" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Baune</surname><given-names>BT</given-names></name><name><surname>Smith</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Reppermund</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Air</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Samaras</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Lux</surname><given-names>O</given-names></name><name><surname>Brodaty</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Sachdev</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Trollor</surname><given-names>JN</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Inflammatory biomarkers predict depressive, but not anxiety symptoms during aging: the prospective Sydney Memory and Aging Study</article-title><source>Psychoneuroendocrinology</source><year>2012</year><volume>37</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>1521</fpage><lpage>1530</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22406002</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR38" publication-type="journal">Baune BT, Smith E, Reppermund S, Air T, Samaras K, Lux O, Brodaty H, Sachdev P, Trollor JN. Inflammatory biomarkers predict depressive, but not anxiety symptoms during aging: the prospective Sydney Memory and Aging Study. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2012;37(9):1521&#x02013;30.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22406002</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR39"><label>39.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR39" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Miller</surname><given-names>AH</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Norman Cousins Lecture. Mechanisms of cytokine-induced behavioral changes: psychoneuroimmunology at the translational interface</article-title><source>Brain Behav Immun</source><year>2009</year><volume>23</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>149</fpage><lpage>158</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18793712</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR39" publication-type="journal">Miller AH. Norman Cousins Lecture. Mechanisms of cytokine-induced behavioral changes: psychoneuroimmunology at the translational interface. Brain Behav Immun. 2009;23(2):149&#x02013;58.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18793712</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR40"><label>40.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR40" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Maes</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Leonard</surname><given-names>BE</given-names></name><name><surname>Myint</surname><given-names>AM</given-names></name><name><surname>Kubera</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Verkerk</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The new &#x0201c;5-HT&#x0201d; hypothesis of depression: cell-mediated immune activation induces indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase, which leads to lower plasma tryptophan and an increased synthesis of detrimental tryptophan catabolites (TRYCATs), both of which contribute to the onset of depression</article-title><source>Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry</source><year>2011</year><volume>35</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>702</fpage><lpage>21</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21185346</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR40" publication-type="journal">Maes M, Leonard BE, Myint AM, Kubera M, Verkerk R. The new &#x0201c;5-HT&#x0201d; hypothesis of depression: cell-mediated immune activation induces indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase, which leads to lower plasma tryptophan and an increased synthesis of detrimental tryptophan catabolites (TRYCATs), both of which contribute to the onset of depression. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2011;35(3):702&#x02013;21.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21185346</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR41"><label>41.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR41" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Direk</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Koudstaal</surname><given-names>PJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Hofman</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Ikram</surname><given-names>MA</given-names></name><name><surname>Hoogendijk</surname><given-names>WJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Tiemeier</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Cerebral hemodynamics and incident depression: the Rotterdam study</article-title><source>Biol Psychiatry</source><year>2012</year><volume>72</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>318</fpage><lpage>323</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22381733</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR41" publication-type="journal">Direk N, Koudstaal PJ, Hofman A, Ikram MA, Hoogendijk WJ, Tiemeier H. Cerebral hemodynamics and incident depression: the Rotterdam study. Biol Psychiatry. 2012;72(4):318&#x02013;23.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22381733</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR42"><label>42.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR42" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Puglisi</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Bramanti</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Lanza</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Cantone</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Vinciguerra</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Pennisi</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Bonanno</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Pennisi</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Bella</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Impaired cerebral haemodynamics in vascular depression: insights from transcranial doppler ultrasonography</article-title><source>Front Psychiatry</source><year>2018</year><volume>9</volume><fpage>316</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30061847</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR42" publication-type="journal">Puglisi V, Bramanti A, Lanza G, Cantone M, Vinciguerra L, Pennisi M, Bonanno L, Pennisi G, Bella R. Impaired cerebral haemodynamics in vascular depression: insights from transcranial doppler ultrasonography. Front Psychiatry. 2018;9: 316.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30061847</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR43"><label>43.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR43" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Alexopoulos</surname><given-names>GS</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Depression in the elderly</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2005</year><volume>365</volume><issue>9475</issue><fpage>1961</fpage><lpage>1970</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15936426</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR43" publication-type="journal">Alexopoulos GS. Depression in the elderly. Lancet. 2005;365(9475):1961&#x02013;70.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15936426</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR44"><label>44.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR44" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Alexopoulos</surname><given-names>GS</given-names></name><name><surname>Meyers</surname><given-names>BS</given-names></name><name><surname>Young</surname><given-names>RC</given-names></name><name><surname>Kakuma</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Silbersweig</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Charlson</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Clinically defined vascular depression</article-title><source>Am J Psychiatry</source><year>1997</year><volume>154</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>562</fpage><lpage>565</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">9090349</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR44" publication-type="journal">Alexopoulos GS, Meyers BS, Young RC, Kakuma T, Silbersweig D, Charlson M. Clinically defined vascular depression. Am J Psychiatry. 1997;154(4):562&#x02013;5.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">9090349</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR45"><label>45.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR45" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Yoshida</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Shimizu</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Yoshimoto</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Takamura</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Okada</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Okamoto</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Yamawaki</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Doya</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Prediction of clinical depression scores and detection of changes in whole-brain using resting-state functional MRI data with partial least squares regression</article-title><source>PLoS One</source><year>2017</year><volume>12</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>e0179638</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28700672</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR45" publication-type="journal">Yoshida K, Shimizu Y, Yoshimoto J, Takamura M, Okada G, Okamoto Y, Yamawaki S, Doya K. Prediction of clinical depression scores and detection of changes in whole-brain using resting-state functional MRI data with partial least squares regression. PLoS One. 2017;12(7): e0179638.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28700672</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR46"><label>46.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR46" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zhong</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Shi</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Ming</surname><given-names>Q</given-names></name><name><surname>Dong</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Zeng</surname><given-names>LL</given-names></name><name><surname>Yao</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Whole-brain resting-state functional connectivity identified major depressive disorder: a multivariate pattern analysis in two independent samples</article-title><source>J Affect Disord</source><year>2017</year><volume>218</volume><fpage>346</fpage><lpage>352</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28499208</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR46" publication-type="journal">Zhong X, Shi H, Ming Q, Dong D, Zhang X, Zeng LL, Yao S. Whole-brain resting-state functional connectivity identified major depressive disorder: a multivariate pattern analysis in two independent samples. J Affect Disord. 2017;218:346&#x02013;52.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28499208</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR47"><label>47.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR47" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Drysdale</surname><given-names>AT</given-names></name><name><surname>Grosenick</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Downar</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Dunlop</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Mansouri</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Meng</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Fetcho</surname><given-names>RN</given-names></name><name><surname>Zebley</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Oathes</surname><given-names>DJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Etkin</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Resting-state connectivity biomarkers define neurophysiological subtypes of depression</article-title><source>Nat Med</source><year>2017</year><volume>23</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>28</fpage><lpage>38</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27918562</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR47" publication-type="journal">Drysdale AT, Grosenick L, Downar J, Dunlop K, Mansouri F, Meng Y, Fetcho RN, Zebley B, Oathes DJ, Etkin A, et al. Resting-state connectivity biomarkers define neurophysiological subtypes of depression. Nat Med. 2017;23(1):28&#x02013;38.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27918562</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR48"><label>48.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Patel MJ, Andreescu C, Price JC, Edelman KL, Reynolds CF 3rd, Aizenstein HJ. Machine learning approaches for integrating clinical and imaging features in late-life depression classification and response prediction. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2015;30(10):1056&#x02013;67.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR49"><label>49.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR49" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Grzenda</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Speier</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Siddarth</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Pant</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Krause-Sorio</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Narr</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Lavretsky</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Machine learning prediction of treatment outcome in late-life depression</article-title><source>Front Psychiatry</source><year>2021</year><volume>12</volume><fpage>738494</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34744829</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR49" publication-type="journal">Grzenda A, Speier W, Siddarth P, Pant A, Krause-Sorio B, Narr K, Lavretsky H. Machine learning prediction of treatment outcome in late-life depression. Front Psychiatry. 2021;12: 738494.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34744829</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR50"><label>50.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR50" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lin</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>SH</given-names></name><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>CM</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>GY</given-names></name><name><surname>Chang</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>HL</given-names></name><name><surname>Ng</surname><given-names>SH</given-names></name><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>TM</given-names></name><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>SC</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Automatic diagnosis of late-life depression by 3D convolutional neural networks and cross-sample entropy analysis from resting-state fMRI</article-title><source>Brain Imaging Behav</source><year>2023</year><volume>17</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>125</fpage><lpage>135</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36418676</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR50" publication-type="journal">Lin C, Lee SH, Huang CM, Chen GY, Chang W, Liu HL, Ng SH, Lee TM, Wu SC. Automatic diagnosis of late-life depression by 3D convolutional neural networks and cross-sample entropy analysis from resting-state fMRI. Brain Imaging Behav. 2023;17(1):125&#x02013;35.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36418676</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR51"><label>51.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR51" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Hu</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Jiang</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Mao</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Feng</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Miao</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Bai</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Identification and validation of an explainable prediction model of acute kidney injury with prognostic implications in critically ill children: a prospective multicenter cohort study</article-title><source>EClinicalMedicine</source><year>2024</year><volume>68</volume><fpage>102409</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38273888</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR51" publication-type="journal">Hu J, Xu J, Li M, Jiang Z, Mao J, Feng L, Miao K, Li H, Chen J, Bai Z, et al. Identification and validation of an explainable prediction model of acute kidney injury with prognostic implications in critically ill children: a prospective multicenter cohort study. EClinicalMedicine. 2024;68: 102409.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38273888</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR52"><label>52.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR52" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lundberg</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>S-I</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>A Unified approach to interpreting model predictions</article-title><source>Adv Neural Inf Process Syst</source><year>2017</year><volume>30</volume><fpage>4765</fpage><lpage>74</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR52" publication-type="journal">Lundberg S, Lee S-I. A Unified approach to interpreting model predictions. Adv Neural Inf Process Syst. 2017;30:4765&#x02013;74.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR53"><label>53.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR53" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sidey-Gibbons</surname><given-names>JAM</given-names></name><name><surname>Sidey-Gibbons</surname><given-names>CJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Machine learning in medicine: a practical introduction</article-title><source>BMC Med Res Methodol</source><year>2019</year><volume>19</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>64</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30890124</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR53" publication-type="journal">Sidey-Gibbons JAM, Sidey-Gibbons CJ. Machine learning in medicine: a practical introduction. BMC Med Res Methodol. 2019;19(1): 64.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30890124</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref></ref-list></back></article>