# Baseline functional connectivity of the basal forebrain-cortical circuit predict taVNS treatment response in primary insomnia: a randomized controlled trial and fMRI study.

<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//NLM//DTD JATS (Z39.96) Journal Archiving and Interchange DTD with MathML3 v1.3 20210610//EN" "JATS-archivearticle1-3-mathml3.dtd"> 
<article xmlns:ali="http://www.niso.org/schemas/ali/1.0/" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" article-type="research-article" dtd-version="1.3"><?properties open_access?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierValue -//Springer-Verlag//DTD A++ V2.4//EN?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierType public?><?SourceDTD.DTDName A++V2.4.dtd?><?SourceDTD.Version 2.4?><?ConverterInfo.XSLTName springer2nlmx2.xsl?><?ConverterInfo.Version 1?><processing-meta base-tagset="archiving" mathml-version="3.0" table-model="xhtml" tagset-family="jats"><restricted-by>pmc</restricted-by></processing-meta><front><journal-meta><journal-id journal-id-type="nlm-ta">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-id journal-id-type="iso-abbrev">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-title-group><journal-title>BMC Medicine</journal-title></journal-title-group><issn pub-type="epub">1741-7015</issn><publisher><publisher-name>BioMed Central</publisher-name><publisher-loc>London</publisher-loc></publisher></journal-meta>
<article-meta><article-id pub-id-type="pmcid">12239473</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="pmid">40629377</article-id>
<article-id pub-id-type="publisher-id">4126</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12916-025-04126-7</article-id><article-categories><subj-group subj-group-type="heading"><subject>Research</subject></subj-group></article-categories><title-group><article-title>Baseline functional connectivity of the basal forebrain-cortical circuit predict taVNS treatment response in primary insomnia: a randomized controlled trial and fMRI study</article-title></title-group><contrib-group><contrib contrib-type="author" equal-contrib="yes"><name><surname>Qi</surname><given-names>Meng</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" equal-contrib="yes"><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>Yiting</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Mai</surname><given-names>Runru</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff4">4</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Yan</surname><given-names>Zhaoxian</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>Biyun</given-names></name><address><email>cloudxby@163.com</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff4">4</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>Bo</given-names></name><address><email>liubogzcm@163.com</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Yue</given-names></name><address><email>ZYue_2024@163.com</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><aff id="Aff1"><label>1</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/03qb7bg95</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.411866.c</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0000 8848 7685</institution-id><institution>Department of Radiology, </institution><institution>The Second Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, </institution></institution-wrap>Guangzhou, China </aff><aff id="Aff2"><label>2</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/03qb7bg95</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.411866.c</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0000 8848 7685</institution-id><institution>The Second Clinical College of Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, </institution></institution-wrap>Guangzhou, China </aff><aff id="Aff3"><label>3</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/00z27jk27</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.412540.6</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 2372 7462</institution-id><institution>Department of Neurology, </institution><institution>Shuguang Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, </institution></institution-wrap>Shanghai, China </aff><aff id="Aff4"><label>4</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/03qb7bg95</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.411866.c</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0000 8848 7685</institution-id><institution>Department of Psychology and Sleep, </institution><institution>The Second Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, </institution></institution-wrap>Guangzhou, China </aff></contrib-group><pub-date pub-type="epub"><day>9</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="pmc-release"><day>9</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="collection"><year>2025</year></pub-date><volume>23</volume><elocation-id>412</elocation-id><history><date date-type="received"><day>2</day><month>10</month><year>2024</year></date><date date-type="accepted"><day>13</day><month>5</month><year>2025</year></date></history><permissions><copyright-statement>&#x000a9; The Author(s) 2025</copyright-statement><copyright-year>2025</copyright-year><license><ali:license_ref specific-use="textmining" content-type="ccbyncndlicense">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ali:license_ref><license-p><bold>Open Access</bold> This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed material. You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/">http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ext-link>.</license-p></license></permissions><abstract id="Abs1"><sec><title>Background</title><p id="Par9">Dysfunctional basal forebrain (BF) connectivity contributes to primary insomnia (PI). This study investigated whether transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation (taVNS) modulates BF functional connectivity (FC) in patients with PI and whether baseline FC predicts taVNS treatment response.</p></sec><sec><title>Methods</title><p id="Par10">Seventy patients with PI were randomized to real or sham taVNS for 4&#x000a0;weeks. Clinical assessments&#x02014;including Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI], Insomnia Severity Index (ISI] and Zung&#x02019;s Self-Rating Anxiety (SAS], and Depression Scale (SDS)&#x02014;and resting-state fMRI data were collected at baseline and after treatment. FC of the bilateral BF subregions (Ch_123, Ch_4) was analyzed, and pre-to-post intervention changes in FC and clinical scores were compared between groups. Baseline FC was used to predict treatment response using a support vector regression (SVR) model, validated on an independent dataset.</p></sec><sec><title>Results</title><p id="Par11">Sixty-seven patients completed the study (33 real taVNS, 34 sham taVNS). Changes in clinical outcomes showed that real taVNS significantly reduce PSQI, ISI, and SAS scores compared to sham. FC analysis revealed reduced connectivity between bilateral BF and areas involved in visual (superior occipital gyrus, SOG; middle occipital gyrus, MOG; fusiform gyrus, FFG), somatosensory (supplementary motor area, SMA) cortex and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) after taVNS treatment. Reduced FC between bilateral BF and left MOG correlated positively with ISI improvement (<italic>r</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.490, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.008, Bonferroni correction). The SVR model effectively predicted treatment response based on BF-visual circuit connectivity (<italic>r</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.520, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.0014, 5000 permutation test) and generalized well to an independent dataset (<italic>r</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.443, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.0354, 5000 permutation test).</p></sec><sec><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par12">Our findings suggest that taVNS may alleviate symptoms of primary insomnia through modulation of basal forebrain connectivity with visual, sensorimotor, and medial prefrontal cortical regions. Preliminary investigations indicate that baseline functional connectivity in the BF-visual circuit could represent a candidate biomarker for taVNS response, potentially informing personalized treatment strategies.</p></sec><sec><title>Trial registration</title><p id="Par13">The study was registered with the China Clinical Trial Registry (Clinical Trial No. ChiCTR1900022535).</p></sec><sec><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12916-025-04126-7.</p></sec></abstract><kwd-group xml:lang="en"><title>Keywords</title><kwd>Transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation</kwd><kwd>Treatment efficacy prediction</kwd><kwd>Primary insomnia</kwd><kwd>Functional connectivity of basal forebrain</kwd></kwd-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>Science and Technology Program of Guangzhou</institution></funding-source><award-id>202102010260</award-id></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>Traditional Chinese Medicine Science and Technology Project of Guangdong Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine .</institution></funding-source><award-id>YN2020MS09</award-id></award-group></funding-group><custom-meta-group><custom-meta><meta-name>issue-copyright-statement</meta-name><meta-value>&#x000a9; BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2025</meta-value></custom-meta></custom-meta-group></article-meta></front><body><sec id="Sec2"><title>Background</title><p id="Par39">Primary insomnia is a widespread condition with harmful effects, including an increased likelihood of mood disorders such as anxiety and depression, which impair individuals&#x02019; quality of life and impose societal costs [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>]. Traditional treatments like medication may cause side effects and dependency [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>], while cognitive-behavioral therapy can be costly and time-consuming [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>]. Thus, there is a crucial need to investigate innovative and safer therapies for primary insomnia.
</p><p id="Par40">The vagus nerve, a key cranial nerve regulating the autonomic nervous system, influences various functions including stress, sleep, and the neuroendocrine-immune axis [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>]. Studies suggest that cervical vagus nerve stimulation can improve sleep quality [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>], modulate sleep patterns [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>], and alleviate insomnia-related emotional disturbances [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>]. However, evidence for transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation (taVNS)&#x02014;a non-invasive method targeting the auricular branch of the vagus nerve&#x02014;remains limited due to methodological flaws in existing studies. These includes a lack of control group [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>], small sample size [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>], and significant heterogeneity in multicenter studies [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>]. Such limitations may hinder definitive conclusions about taVNS efficacy for primary insomnia.</p><p id="Par41">The sleep&#x02013;wake cycle depends on the structural and functional integrity of brain regions within the ascending reticular activation system (ARAS) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>]. As part of the ARAS, the basal forebrain (BF) integrates inputs from lower arousal-related nuclei and projects to higher-order cortical regions associated with consciousness (Fig. <xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>]. Previous studies have provided strong evidence for the involvement of BF cholinergic neurons in cortical activation [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>] and sleep&#x02013;wake regulation [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>]. Notably, benzodiazepines, a commonly used medication for insomnia, was found to primarily affect the BF pathways [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR21">21</xref>]. Thus, it is of interest to explore the potential modulating effect of taVNS on the BF functional connectivity (FC) in primary insomnia.<fig id="Fig1"><label>Fig. 1</label><caption><p>Illustration of the locations of basal forebrain (BF) subregions. The red color represents bilateral Ch_123; the blue color represents bilateral Ch_4</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4126_Fig1_HTML" id="MO1"/></fig></p><p id="Par42">Given the heterogenous distribution of cholinergic neurons in the BF, we investigated FC in BF subregions. Rodent and nonhuman primate studies have identified distinct BF subdivisions Ch1-4 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR22">22</xref>], and Fritz et al. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>] used resting-state fMRI to cluster BF functional connectivity in healthy participants, revealing two subregions: the medial septum/diagonal band of Broca (MS/DB, Ch_123) and the nucleus basalis of Meynert (NBM, Ch_4). Importantly, individuals with sleep disorders exhibited reduced FC between Ch_123 and the right medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) but increased connectivity between Ch_4 and the right midbrain [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>].</p><p id="Par43">Due to the lack of randomized controlled trial (RCT) evidence and unclear mechanisms underlying taVNS for insomnia, this study aims to assess the taVNS efficacy for primary insomnia using an RCT design, and investigate its effects on the BF subregion-cortical circuits. We hypothesize that taVNS will improve insomnia symptoms and alter BF connectivity with key cortical regions, such as the visual networks, sensorimotor networks and mPFC&#x02013;areas implicated in sleep, arousal, and emotional processing [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR26">26</xref>].</p><p id="Par44">Since taVNS treatment response shows substantial interindividual variability [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR27">27</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR28">28</xref>], we further employed machine learning to determine whether BF-cortical connectivity patterns could predict therapeutic outcomes. The identification of such a neuroimaging biomarker would facilitate pre-treatment patient stratification, and enable more personalized therapeutic approaches.</p></sec><sec id="Sec3"><title>Methods</title><sec id="Sec4"><title>Standard protocol approvals, registration and consents</title><p id="Par45">The Ethics Committee of the Second Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou University of Traditional Chinese Medicine approved the protocol. Seventy patients for RCT study were recruited at the outpatient facilities of the Sleep Disorders Division at the Second Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou University of Traditional Chinese Medicine. The study commenced in April 17th, 2019, and concluded in January 31st, 2020. The study was registered with the China Clinical Trial Registry (Clinical Trial No. ChiCTR1900022535). An independent dataset, which included 26 patients undergoing real taVNS, was also collected to validate the model. Detailed information regarding the collection of the independent samples, comparisons of&#x000a0;demographic data and clinical characteristics between the main and independent samples (Additional file 1: Table S1), as well as the change in clinical outcome measures (Additional file 1: Table S2) are provided in the additional materials. All participants provided their informed consent.</p></sec><sec id="Sec5"><title>Study population</title><p id="Par46">Two experienced psychiatrists from the Department of Sleep Disorders diagnosed participants based on the DSM-5 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR29">29</xref>]. The study recruited participants with PI who met the following inclusion criteria: (1) Individuals between the ages of 18 and 65 who are right-handed; (2) at least 1 of the 3 typical symptoms of insomnia (i.e., difficulty in falling asleep, maintaining a sleep state, or insufficient sleep time) lasting&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;3 months PI; (3) PSQI score above 7, SAS score below 59 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>], and SDS score below 62 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR31">31</xref>]; (4) Without any metal implants in the body, claustrophobia, or any other reasons that would prevent an MRI; and (5) minimum education requirement of junior high school level.</p><p id="Par47">Exclusion criteria include the following:(1) possible causes of insomnia symptoms include head injuries, neurological disorders, substance abuse, and other environmental factors; (2) tumors of the heart, brain, liver, kidneys, and hematopoietic system or other primary severe diseases; (3) contraindications to vagal nerve stimulation such as cardiac arrhythmias and asthma; (4) allergic reaction or injury to the skin at the site of stimulation; and (5) enrollment in other medical studies in the last six months or use of anticholinergic medications or other medications that could suppress cortical or nervous system function during the assessment.</p></sec><sec id="Sec6"><title>Experimental design</title><p id="Par48">This study utilized a clinical trial that was single-blinded, randomized, and controlled. Qualified patients with PI were assigned randomly to receive either real or sham taVNS treatment, following a randomization sequence created by SPSS. During the 4-week study, participants were self-administered stimulation at home unaware of whether they were receiving real or sham treatment. The study flow chart is shown in Fig. <xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>.<fig id="Fig2"><label>Fig. 2</label><caption><p>Flowchart of the study. <italic>PI,</italic> primary insomnia; <italic>taVNS,</italic> transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation treatment; <italic>Bi_Bforebrain</italic>, bilateral basal forebrain; <italic>FC</italic>, functional connectivity; <italic>ANOVA</italic>, analysis of variance; <italic>FFG</italic>, fusiform gyrus; <italic>MOG</italic>, middle occipital gyrus; <italic>SOG</italic>, superior occipital gyrus; <italic>PSQI</italic>, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index; <italic>LOOCV</italic>, leave-one-out cross-validation; <italic>SVR</italic>, support vector regression</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4126_Fig2_HTML" id="MO2"/></fig></p></sec><sec id="Sec7"><title>Intervention</title><p id="Par49">Stimulation sessions were conducted using a portable electronic acupuncture therapeutic device (SDZ-IIB, Huatuo, Suzhou, China). The stimulation frequency was set at 20 Hz, comprising 20 Hz for 10 s and 4 Hz for 5 s, with a ratio of 1:5 for sparse and dense waves in both real and sham groups. Participants could adjust the stimulation intensity themselves, ensuring it had a strongest&#x000a0;tickling feeling without pain. For the final evaluation, participants received 40 sessions over 4 weeks, with two sessions daily (afternoon and evening) at home, totaling 30 min per session. Consistent with our prior taVNS studies [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR32">32</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR33">33</xref>], real taVNS was administered at the left cymba concha, while sham stimulation was delivered to the left tail of the helix.</p></sec><sec id="Sec8"><title>Clinical outcomes</title><p id="Par50">The study assessed participants using the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), Insomnia Severity Index (ISI), Zung&#x02019;s Self-Rating Anxiety (SAS), and Depression Scale (SDS) before and after a 4-week intervention. The primary outcome focused on analyzing the reduction in the average PSQI score, while secondary outcomes encompassed five component scores of PSQI, ISI, SAS, and SDS scores.</p></sec><sec id="Sec9"><title>Sample size calculations</title><p id="Par51">The sample size was determined a priori using G*Power 3.1 software [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR34">34</xref>] for a 2&#x02009;&#x000d7;&#x02009;2 repeated-measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) design. Based on Cohen&#x02019;s [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR35">35</xref>] conventions for medium effect sizes in behavioral research (<italic>&#x0014b;</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.06, <italic>f</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.25), with <italic>&#x003b1;</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.05, power&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.90, two measurement timepoints, and an assumed correlation of 0.5 among repeated measures, the analysis indicated a requirement of 44 participants (22 per group). To account for potential attrition (estimated at 20%), we increased this to 27 participants per group. To enhance statistical robustness against potential higher dropout rates, we ultimately recruited 35 participants per group.</p></sec><sec id="Sec10"><title>Statistical analysis for clinical outcome</title><p id="Par52">The primary outcome was evaluated by comparing changes in PSQI scores using a linear mixed model. The model includes time, group assignment, and their interaction as fixed factors, with patients as a random factor, and age, gender, BMI, insomnia duration, SAS, and SDS as covariates. Analysis was performed using SPSS 22.0 software package from IBM Corp. in Armonk, NY, USA. The same approach was applied to assess secondary clinical outcomes.</p></sec><sec id="Sec11"><title>Functional MRI data acquisition</title><p id="Par53">The resting-state functional MRI (rs-fMRI) images were acquired using a 3.0 T Ingenia MR scanner from Philips in Amsterdam, Netherlands, equipped with a 32-channel birdcage head coil. During the scan, participants were instructed to stay motionless and alert, with their eyes closed and minds clear of any thoughts. Functional images were acquired using the following parameters: field of view (FOV)&#x02009;=&#x02009;240&#x02009;&#x000d7;&#x02009;240 mm, matrix&#x02009;=&#x02009;64&#x02009;&#x000d7;&#x02009;61, repetition time (TR)&#x02009;=&#x02009;2000 ms, echo time (TE)&#x02009;=&#x02009;30 ms, slice thickness&#x02009;=&#x02009;3.5 mm, interslice gap&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.25 mm, 38 axial slices in parallel, and 240 time points. High-resolution structural images were acquired using T1-weighted sequences with the parameters TR&#x02009;=&#x02009;10 ms, TE&#x02009;=&#x02009;4.7 ms, flip angle&#x02009;=&#x02009;9&#x000b0;, FOV&#x02009;=&#x02009;256 mm&#x02009;&#x000d7;&#x02009;240 mm, matrix&#x02009;=&#x02009;320&#x02009;&#x000d7;&#x02009;300, and slice thickness&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.8 mm.</p></sec><sec id="Sec12"><title>Data preprocessing</title><p id="Par54">The fMRI data underwent preprocessing with MATLAB-based CONN 18b within SPM 12. Preprocessing of the entire brain involved correcting for slice timing, realigning images, segmenting structures, normalizing spatially and functionally to a standard MNI space, resampling to 2&#x02009;&#x000d7;&#x02009;2&#x02009;&#x000d7;&#x02009;2 mm voxels, and applying 6 mm full-width half-maximum (FWMH) Gaussian kernel smoothing. Subjects were excluded from the data analysis if their head motion exceeded 2 times the group standard deviation added to the group mean relative root-mean-square displacement, in order to reduce the impact of head motion (no subjects were excluded in the data analysis). The ART feature from the CONN toolbox was utilized (<ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://www.nitrc.org/projects/artifact_detect/">https://www.nitrc.org/projects/artifact_detect/</ext-link>) to identify outlier time points for movement parameters and overall signal intensity. Potential variables like white matter, cerebrospinal fluid signal, linear trend, subject motion (six rotational/translational motion parameters and six first-order time derivatives), and outliers (refreshing) were included as regressors in the linear regression analysis. Next, the remaining BOLD signal was processed using a band-pass filter (0.008&#x02013;0.09 Hz) to reduce the impact of low-frequency fluctuations and high-frequency interference.</p></sec><sec id="Sec13"><title>Seed-based functional connectivity analysis</title><p id="Par55">Similar to previous researches [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR36">36</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR37">37</xref>], we created bilateral BF subregions (Ch_123 and Ch_4) as two seed regions (see Fig. <xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>) using the probabilistic maps in the SPM Anatomy toolbox [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR38">38</xref>]. The CONN 18b toolbox was utilized for conducting functional connectivity analysis. During the initial analysis, correlation maps were created for individual patients by isolating the BOLD time series from the basal forebrain subregion and calculating Pearson&#x02019;s correlation coefficients between the time series in bilateral Ch123 or Ch_4 seeds and all remaining brain voxels. The correlation coefficients were subsequently converted into Z-scores using the Fisher transformation to improve their normal distribution. Second-level analyses were conducted from seed to voxel. An analysis of variance with a mixed design was utilized, utilizing treatment (real taVNS vs. sham taVNS) as the factor between subjects, time (pretreatment vs. post-treatment) as the factor within subjects, and age, gender, BMI, insomnia duration, head motion, SAS, and SDS as covariates. For comparison, a threshold of voxel-wise significance at <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001 (uncorrected) and cluster-level significance at <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05 (FDR corrected) was utilized.</p></sec><sec id="Sec14"><title>Multivariate pattern analysis</title><p id="Par56">This research utilized the multivariate pattern analysis (MVPA) approach to investigate if the functional connectivity of the basal forebrain subregion-cortical circuit indicator in the baseline state could forecast the response to taVNS treatment in individuals with PI. We chose specific areas that showed notable differences between the real taVNS and sham taVNS groups after treatment as our mask. We suggested that these baseline FC values could be utilized to predict the effectiveness of taVNS treatment. To test this, we used MVPA with linear SVR (implemented by LIBSVM at&#x000a0;<ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/libsvm/index">https://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/libsvm/index</ext-link>. html). In all PI patients, we designated the alterations in PSQI (posttreatment minus pretreatment) as the outcome variable and FC within the mask as the predictors. Data dimensions were reduced using feature selection that relied on weight. The leave-one-out cross-validation method was selected as a balanced option to address bias and training sample size concerns, minimizing the risk of overfitting. The training sample consisted of N-1, while the testing sample is 1. The predictive ability of the SVR model was evaluated by calculating the correlation coefficient (<italic>r</italic>) between the actual and predicted values. Permutation testing, with the process repeated 5000 times, was conducted to further evaluate the model&#x02019;s performance and assess the significance of <italic>r</italic>, and <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05 was considered to be statistically significant.</p></sec><sec id="Sec15"><title>Investigating the generalizability of the identified biomarkers</title><p id="Par57">To investigate the generalizability of the identified biomarkers, we further collected an independent dataset with 26 patients included to predict treatment response measured by the changes of PSQI scores after receiving 4-week taVNS. The analysis of the clinical data and the preprocessing steps of the fMRI data were the same as narrated above. In the following procedures, first, we used the previous dataset of 34 participants with the same parameters, SVR algorithm, top weight characteristics, and labels (changes of PSQI scores after treatment) to propose a prediction model. Second, we applied this constructed model to the new dataset (26 participants) to obtain the corresponding predicted value. Finally, the Pearson&#x02019;s correlation was calculated between the predicted and the real value (<italic>r</italic>). Permutation testing (permutation times&#x02009;=&#x02009;5000) was also performed to verify the authenticity of the prediction efficiency of the validation, and the significance threshold was set to <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05 (two-tailed).</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec16"><title>Results</title><sec id="Sec17"><title>Participants and baseline characteristics</title><p id="Par58">After baseline screening and assessment, 70 participants were recruited and assigned to either real or sham group in a 1:1 ratio. The final data analysis included 67 participants who completed fMRI scans at both the beginning and end of the treatment, with 34 in the real taVNS group and 33 in the sham taVNS group. Three participants dropped out at the final stage. One participant from the taVNS group dropped out due to an unexpected 1-month business trip, while two participants from the sham group dropped out&#x02014;one due to a busy work schedule with extensive overtime commitments, and the other due to poor tolerance of ear pain. No participants were excluded during the rs-fMRI scans due to head movements. There were no notable variations in age, gender, BMI, insomnia duration, PSQI, sleep quality, sleep latency, sleep duration, sleep efficiency, daytime dysfunction, SAS, and ISI. SDS in taVNS group was slightly higher than control group (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05). Baseline characteristics of the two groups are shown in Table <xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref>. And baseline characteristics of the independent sample were shown in additional materials (Additional file 1: Table S1).
<table-wrap id="Tab1"><label>Table 1</label><caption><p>Baseline demographic and clinical characteristics between the real taVNS and sham taVNS groups</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left">Variables</th><th align="left">Real taVNS</th><th align="left">Sham taVNS</th><th align="left"><italic>p</italic></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">Gender(female/male)<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">26/8</td><td align="left">20/13</td><td align="left">0.116</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Age(year)<sup>b</sup></td><td align="left">42.88 (13.50)</td><td align="left">44.91 (13.27)</td><td align="left">0.327</td></tr><tr><td align="left">BMI (kg/m<sup>2</sup>) <sup>b</sup></td><td align="left">22.16 (3.13)</td><td align="left">21.35 (4.5)</td><td align="left">0.820</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Insomnia duration(month)<sup>b</sup></td><td align="left">56.34 (61.57)</td><td align="left">67.21 (76.13)</td><td align="left">0.618</td></tr><tr><td align="left">PSQI (total score)<sup>c</sup></td><td align="left">16.26 (2.49)</td><td align="left">15.58 (2.54)</td><td align="left">0.266</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><italic>Sleep quality(score)</italic><sup>c</sup></td><td align="left">2.53 (0.51)</td><td align="left">2.45 (0.51)</td><td align="left">0.547</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><italic>Sleep latency(score)</italic><sup>c</sup></td><td align="left">2.65 (0.69)</td><td align="left">2.58 (0.87)</td><td align="left">0.711</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><italic>Sleep duration(score)</italic><sup>c</sup></td><td align="left">2.44 (0.66)</td><td align="left">2.39 (0.66)</td><td align="left">0.770</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><italic>Sleep efficiency(score)</italic><sup>c</sup></td><td align="left">2.56 (0.61)</td><td align="left">2.36 (0.74)</td><td align="left">0.244</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><italic>Sleep disturbances(score)</italic><sup>c</sup></td><td align="left">1.76 (0.55)</td><td align="left">1.58 (0.56)</td><td align="left">0.170</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><italic>Daytime dysfunction(score)</italic><sup>c</sup></td><td align="left">2.59 (0.74)</td><td align="left">2.48 (0.97)</td><td align="left">0.626</td></tr><tr><td align="left">ISI (score)<sup>c</sup></td><td align="left">18.76 (3.78)</td><td align="left">17.15 (4.89)</td><td align="left">0.135</td></tr><tr><td align="left">SAS (score)<sup>c</sup></td><td align="left">50.85 (8.11)</td><td align="left">50.20 (6.58)</td><td align="left">0.721</td></tr><tr><td align="left">SDS (score)<sup>c</sup></td><td align="left">55.15 (5.54)</td><td align="left">51.55 (8.39)</td><td align="left">0.042*</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p><italic>Abbreviations:</italic> Data are shown as mean&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;SD unless otherwise indicated. Continuous values are expressed as mean&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;standard deviation or median [interquartile range (IQR)]. <italic>taVNS</italic> Transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation, <italic>BMI</italic> Body mass index, <italic>PSQI</italic> Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index. Italicized items represent PSQI sub-scores, <italic>ISI</italic> Insomnia Severity Index, <italic>SAS</italic> Zung&#x02019;s Self-Rating Anxiety, <italic>SDS</italic> Zung&#x02019;s Self-Rating Depression, the asterisk (<italic>*</italic>) indicates <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05</p><p><sup>a</sup>Chi-square test</p><p><sup>b</sup>Mann-Whitney U test</p><p><sup>c</sup>Independent samples T-test</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p></sec><sec id="Sec18"><title>Clinical outcome</title><p id="Par59">The clinical outcome measurements and corresponding statistics are summarized in Table <xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref>. On the primary outcome, there was a significant group&#x02009;&#x000d7;&#x02009;time interaction for the mean reduction in PSQI scores [<italic>F</italic>(1,65)&#x02009;=&#x02009;12.992, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.001]. Similarly, significant interactions were observed for five secondary outcomes, including sleep duration, sleep efficiency, sleep disturbances, ISI, and SAS. For the primary outcome, within-group differences showed an absolute reduction of&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;6.94 (95% CI&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;8.16 to&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;5.72; <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001) in the real taVNS, compared to&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;3.54 (95% CI&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;5.03 to&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;2.06; <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001) in the sham taVNS group. Moreover, PSQI scores after treatment significantly decreased in the real taVNS compared to the sham group (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.007). Significant changes within and between groups were also observed in the secondary outcomes, including sleep duration, sleep efficiency, sleep disturbances, and insomnia severity index (see Table <xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref>). Changes in the clinical outcomes of the independent data after taVNS treatment were also shown in additional materials (Additional file 1: Table S2).
<table-wrap id="Tab2"><label>Table 2</label><caption><p>Clinical outcome measurements in the real and sham taVNS groups</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left">Items</th><th align="left">Group</th><th align="left">Pre (SD)</th><th align="left">Post (SD)</th><th align="left">Post&#x02013;pre (95% CI)</th><th align="left"><italic>t</italic></th><th align="left"><italic>p</italic></th><th align="left">Effect of interaction</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left" rowspan="4">PSQI (total)</td><td align="left">Real</td><td align="left">16.26 (2.49)</td><td align="left">9.32 (3.03)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;6.94 (&#x02212;8.16 to&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;5.72)</td><td align="left">11.598</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left"><italic>F</italic>(1,65)&#x02009;=&#x02009;12.992, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.001**</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Sham</td><td align="left">15.58 (2.54)</td><td align="left">12.03 (4.80)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;3.54 (&#x02212;&#x02009;5.03 to&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;2.06)</td><td align="left">4.851</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left"><italic>t</italic></td><td align="left">1.122</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;2.769</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left"><italic>p</italic></td><td align="left">0.266</td><td align="left">0.007**</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="4">Sleep duration</td><td align="left">Real</td><td align="left">2.44 (0.66)</td><td align="left">1.24 (0.96)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;1.21 (&#x02212;&#x02009;1.56 to&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;0.85)</td><td align="left">6.973</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left"><italic>F</italic>(1,65)&#x02009;=&#x02009;8.347, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.005**</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Sham</td><td align="left">2.39 (0.66)</td><td align="left">1.91 (1.01)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;0.48 (&#x02212;&#x02009;0.85 to&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;0.12)</td><td align="left">2.693</td><td align="left">0.011</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left"><italic>t</italic></td><td align="left">0.293</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;2.804</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left"><italic>p</italic></td><td align="left">0.770</td><td align="left">0.007**</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="4">Sleep efficiency</td><td align="left">Real</td><td align="left">2.56 (0.61)</td><td align="left">1.06 (1.04)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;1.50 (&#x02212;&#x02009;1.87 to&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;1.13)</td><td align="left">8.317</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left"><italic>F</italic>(1,65)&#x02009;=&#x02009;10.523, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.002**</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Sham</td><td align="left">2.36 (0.74)</td><td align="left">1.70 (1.16)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;0.67 (&#x02212;&#x02009;1.04 to&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;0.29)</td><td align="left">3.645</td><td align="left">0.001</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left"><italic>t</italic></td><td align="left">1.175</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;2.371</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left"><italic>p</italic></td><td align="left">0.244</td><td align="left">0.021*</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="4">Sleep disturbance</td><td align="left">Real</td><td align="left">1.76 (0.55)</td><td align="left">1.09 (0.51)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;0.68 (&#x02212;&#x02009;0.90 to&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;0.45)</td><td align="left">6.181</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left"><italic>F</italic>(1,65)&#x02009;=&#x02009;10.938, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.002**</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Sham</td><td align="left">1.58 (0.56)</td><td align="left">1.39 (0.56)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;0.18 (&#x02212;&#x02009;0.39 to&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;0.03)</td><td align="left">1.789</td><td align="left">0.083</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left"><italic>t</italic></td><td align="left">1.388</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;2.338</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left"><italic>p</italic></td><td align="left">0.170</td><td align="left">0.022*</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="4">ISI</td><td align="left">Real</td><td align="left">18.76 (3.78)</td><td align="left">11.82 (4.68)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;6.94 (&#x02212;&#x02009;8.58 to&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;5.30)</td><td align="left">8.606</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left"><italic>F</italic>(1,65)&#x02009;=&#x02009;17.493, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001**</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Sham</td><td align="left">17.15 (4.89)</td><td align="left">14.45 (5.30)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;2.70 (&#x02212;&#x02009;3.94 to&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;1.46)</td><td align="left">4.432</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left"><italic>t</italic></td><td align="left">1.512</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;2.155</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left"><italic>p</italic></td><td align="left">0.135</td><td align="left">0.035*</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="4">SAS</td><td align="left">Real</td><td align="left">50.85 (8.11)</td><td align="left">41.68 (6.87)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;9.17 (&#x02212;&#x02009;12.37 to&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;5.99)</td><td align="left">5.850</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left"><italic>F</italic>(1,65)&#x02009;=&#x02009;4.101, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.047*</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Sham</td><td align="left">50.20 (6.58)</td><td align="left">45.40 (7.24)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;4.80 (&#x02212;&#x02009;7.82 to&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;1.79)</td><td align="left">3.243</td><td align="left">0.003</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left"><italic>t</italic></td><td align="left">0.359</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;2.162</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left"><italic>p</italic></td><td align="left">0.721</td><td align="left">0.034*</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="4">SDS</td><td align="left">Real</td><td align="left">55.15 (5.54)</td><td align="left">48.51 (7.71)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;6.64 (&#x02212;&#x02009;10.35 to&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;2.94)</td><td align="left">3.651</td><td align="left">&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.001</td><td align="left"><italic>F</italic>(1,65)&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.021, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.885</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Sham</td><td align="left">51.55 (8.39)</td><td align="left">45.28 (10.0)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;6.27 (&#x02212;&#x02009;9.99 to&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;2.55)</td><td align="left">3.435</td><td align="left">&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.002</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left"><italic>t</italic></td><td align="left">2.079</td><td align="left">1.476</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left"><italic>p</italic></td><td align="left">0.042*</td><td align="left">0.145</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p><italic>Abbreviations: real</italic> real taVNS, <italic>sham</italic> sham taVNS, <italic>PSQI</italic> Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, <italic>ISI</italic> Insomnia Severity Index, <italic>SAS</italic> Zung&#x02019;s Self-Rating Anxiety, <italic>SDS </italic><italic>Zung&#x02019;s Self-Rating Depression, the asterisk (*) indicates p&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05; asterisks (**) indicates p&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.01</italic></p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p></sec><sec id="Sec19"><title>Functional connectivity results</title><p id="Par60">The result of seed-based analysis using basal forebrain subregions is shown in the Table <xref rid="Tab3" ref-type="table">3</xref> and Fig. <xref rid="Fig3" ref-type="fig">3</xref>. Compared to the sham group, the real taVNS group exhibited reduced functional connections between the bilateral Ch_123 seed and the right superior occipital gyrus (SOG) and right middle occipital gyrus (MOG). Considering the pivotal role of the visual, sensorimotor network [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>]and mPFC [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR26">26</xref>] in the pathophysiology of PI, we predefined regions of interest (ROIs) including the visual network (bilateral fusiform gyrus, FFG; middle occipital gyrus, MOG), the sensorimotor network (supplementary motor area, SMA), and the bilateral medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Subsequent analyses involved small-volume correction using a 6 mm radius sphere. There were decreased connections with the left FFG, left MOG, right mPFC, and left SMA through small volume correction, with uncorrected voxel-level <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001 and cluster-level <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05. There was no significant functional connection increase or decrease using bilateral Ch_4 as seed between the real taVNS group and sham taVNS group at the threshold we set.
<table-wrap id="Tab3"><label>Table 3</label><caption><p>Brain regions showing differences of rs-FC of Basal forebrain subregion-cortex between real taVNS and sham taVNS group after 4-week treatment for PI</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left" rowspan="2">Seed</th><th align="left" rowspan="2">Condition</th><th align="left" rowspan="2">Region</th><th align="left" colspan="3">MNI coordinates</th><th align="left" rowspan="2">Peak <italic>Z</italic> value</th><th align="left" rowspan="2"><italic>F </italic>value</th><th align="left" rowspan="2">Cluster size</th></tr><tr><th align="left">X</th><th align="left">Y</th><th align="left">Z</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">Bi_Ch_123</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left"/><td align="left">Real&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;Sham</td><td align="left">MOG/SOG_R</td><td align="left">36</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;78</td><td align="left">28</td><td align="left">4.44</td><td align="left">25.29</td><td align="left">162</td></tr><tr><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">FFG_L<sup>*</sup></td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;40</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;72</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;14</td><td align="left">3.80</td><td align="left">18.13</td><td align="left">31</td></tr><tr><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">MOG_L<sup>*</sup></td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;38</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;74</td><td align="left">10</td><td align="left">4.00</td><td align="left">20.20</td><td align="left">58</td></tr><tr><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">mPFC_R<sup>*</sup></td><td align="left">8</td><td align="left">32</td><td align="left">38</td><td align="left">3.73</td><td align="left">17.39</td><td align="left">12</td></tr><tr><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">SMA_L<sup>*</sup></td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;2</td><td align="left">12</td><td align="left">70</td><td align="left">3.67</td><td align="left">16.80</td><td align="left">12</td></tr><tr><td align="left"/><td align="left">Real&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;Sham</td><td align="left" colspan="7">No brain region above the threshold</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Bi_Ch_4</td><td align="left"/><td align="left" colspan="7"/></tr><tr><td align="left"/><td align="left">Real&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;Sham</td><td align="left" colspan="7">No brain region above the threshold</td></tr><tr><td align="left"/><td align="left">Real&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;Sham</td><td align="left" colspan="7">No brain region above the threshold</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p><italic>Abbreviations:</italic> A threshold of voxel-wise <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001 uncorrected and cluster-level <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05 false discovery rate (FDR) corrected was applied to for comparisons. The asterisk (<sup><bold>*</bold></sup>) indicates small volume correction (voxel-wise <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001 uncorrected and cluster-level <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05). <italic>rs-FC</italic> resting-state functional connectivity, <italic>Bi-Ch_123</italic>, bilateral basal forebrain 123 subregion, <italic>Bi_Ch_4</italic> bilateral basal forebrain 4 subregions, <italic>MNI</italic> Montreal Neurological Institute, <italic>L</italic> left, <italic>R</italic> Right, <italic>MOG</italic> middle occipital gyrus, <italic>SOG</italic> Superior occipital gyrus, <italic>FFG</italic> Fusiform gyrus, <italic>mPFC</italic> medial prefrontal cortex, <italic>SMA</italic> Supplementary motor area</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap><fig id="Fig3"><label>Fig. 3</label><caption><p>Seed-based functional connection analysis result of the bilateral Ch_123 seed. Functional connectivity result of the bilateral Ch_123 seed showed decreased connectivity with the right superior occipital gyrus (SOG), right middle occipital gyrus (MOG), left fusiform gyrus (FFG), left middle occipital gyrus, right medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), and left supplementary motor area (SMA) in the real taVNS group after treatment compared with the sham taVNS. L, left; R, right</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4126_Fig3_HTML" id="MO4"/></fig></p><p id="Par61">Additionally, we investigated the relationship between alterations in functional connectivity and the resulting clinical outcome. The partial correlation indicated a significant positive relationship between reduced functional connectivity of bilateral Ch123 and left MOG and changes in ISI scores (<italic>r</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.490, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.008) following Bonferroni correction, while controlling for age, sex, BMI, head motion, SAS, SDS, and insomnia duration as covariates (Fig. <xref rid="Fig4" ref-type="fig">4</xref>). No significant correlations were observed in the sham group.<fig id="Fig4"><label>Fig. 4</label><caption><p>Partial correlation analysis results. The decreased FC between bilateral Ch-123 and left MOG is positively correlated with ISI score improvement after taVNS treatment (<italic>r</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.490, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.008, Bonferroni correction)</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4126_Fig4_HTML" id="MO5"/></fig></p><p id="Par62">Given the critical role of the visual network in the development and progression of primary insomnia [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR29">29</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR39">39</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR40">40</xref>]. Besides, our study further confirms that taVNS can reduce the functional connectivity of the bilateral basal forebrain-visual circuits which is significantly positively correlated with improvement in ISI scores after treatment. We preserved the brain areas in the visual circuit that exhibited an interaction effect between the real and sham taVNS groups after treatment (include the right superior occipital gyrus, middle occipital gyrus, and fusiform gyrus) to be generated as a mask for subsequent taVNS effectiveness prediction research.</p></sec><sec id="Sec20"><title>Multi voxel pattern analysis results</title><p id="Par63">At baseline in the real taVNS group, we extracted the functional connectivity of bilateral Ch_123 within the mask regions (including the right superior occipital gyrus, middle occipital gyrus, and fusiform gyrus) related to the visual pathway as features, and used the change in PSQI scores (post&#x02013;pre) as labels. Using feature weights for selection and combining leave-one-out cross-validation and permutation testing, we employed a support vector regression (SVR) model to predict the taVNS treatment response. Figure <xref rid="Fig5" ref-type="fig">5</xref> demonstrates that the baseline bilateral Ch3-visual pathway FC characteristics accurately predict changes in PSQI scores following 4 weeks of taVNS therapy, showing a strong correlation of 0.520. Additional permutation analysis revealed that this outcome was not a result of mere coincidence (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.0014). Positive weight brain areas with predictive power are located in the right SOG and MOG, while negative weight brain areas with predictive power are located in the left FFG (Fig. <xref rid="Fig6" ref-type="fig">6</xref>).<fig id="Fig5"><label>Fig. 5</label><caption><p>A Prediction performance of the proposed approach.<bold> A</bold> Line chart reflecting actual label and predictive label; when including 28 predictive features, the highest correlation coefficient is 0.520. <bold>B</bold> The result of the permutation test with the highest correlation coefficient <italic>(p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.0014)</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4126_Fig5_HTML" id="MO6"/></fig><fig id="Fig6"><label>Fig. 6</label><caption><p>Regions with the most predictive features. Red means positive weight, and blue means negative weight. The main weight brain areas are located in FFG, MOG, and SOG. R<italic>,</italic> right; L<italic>,</italic> left; MOG, middle occipital gyrus; SOG, superior occipital gyrus; FFG, fusiform gyrus</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4126_Fig6_HTML" id="MO7"/></fig></p></sec><sec id="Sec21"><title>Validating the identified biomarkers in an independent cohort</title><p id="Par64">We further validated the identified Ch_123-cortices FC markers in an independent dataset of 26 participants (Additional file 1: Table S2). The results showed that the validation yielded a high prediction-outcome correlation coefficient of 0.443 (<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.0354, 5000 permutation test), reflecting a good generalizability of these pre-treatment rsFC features as prediction biomarkers for taVNS treatment in primary insomnia cohort.
</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec22"><title>Discussion</title><p id="Par65">Our exploratory analyses from this RCT suggest that a 4-week taVNS protocol may enhance sleep quality in primary insomnia patients, particularly improving sleep duration, efficiency, and disturbance metrics. Neuroimaging data indicate reduced functional connectivity between bilateral Ch_123 and visual/somatosensory/mPFC regions following taVNS compared to sham treatment, with the magnitude of rs-FC reduction between bilateral Ch_123 and left MOG showing preliminary association with ISI score improvements. Notably, baseline rs-FC patterns in the Ch_123-visual pathway demonstrated potential as predictive biomarkers for treatment response when modeled with SVR.</p><sec id="Sec23"><title>The results of clinical outcomes from taVNS therapy</title><p id="Par66">Regarding clinical measures, post hoc analyses revealed reductions in total Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) and Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) scores following taVNS treatment, consistent with prior systemic review findings [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR41">41</xref>]. Improvements were most evident in specific PSQI subdomains (sleep duration, efficiency, and disturbance), while effects on sleep latency and daytime function did not reach statistical significance, suggesting the benefits of taVNS may be domain-specific.</p><p id="Par67">We also found that anxiety symptoms (SAS) appeared more responsive to taVNS than depressive symptoms (SDS). This discrepancy may be attributed to the higher prevalence of anxiety disorders associated with insomnia [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR42">42</xref>] and potentially reflecting vagus nerve modulation pathways.</p></sec><sec id="Sec24"><title>Modulation of bilateral Ch_123-visual circuit and treatment efficacy prediction</title><p id="Par68">An initial significant finding in this research is a decrease in rs-FC between bilateral Ch_123 and specific regions of the visual network (right SOG/MOG, left FFG, and left MOG) following taVNS treatment. The regions SOG and MOG are associated with vision [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR43">43</xref>], while FFG plays a role in visual object recognition and memory of visual characteristics of familiar objects [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR44">44</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR45">45</xref>]. A previous study [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>] demonstrated that difficulties falling and staying asleep are associated with heightened FC between the primary visual cortex and other sensory regions, leading to prolonged sensory processing of external stimuli and delayed sleep onset. Indeed, poor sleepers exhibit increased integration between visual-related network [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR39">39</xref>], which can be reversed after intervention. Research [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR40">40</xref>] on sleeplessness in fibromyalgia patients revealed reduced brain activity in the right MOG following cognitive behavioral therapy, correlating with longer sleep duration, indicating potential changes in occipital lobe function linked to decreased central sensitization.</p><p id="Par69">Optogenetic studies [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>] confirmed specific projections from the basal forebrain (BF), particularly cholinergic neurons in the Ch_123 region, to the primary visual cortex, and selective activation of these neurons induces desynchronization of local field potentials in the visual cortex. Although direct evidence concerning the effect of vagus nerve stimulation on modulating circuits between BF and visual cortex has yet to be found in either animal or human studies. Previous anatomical and optogenetic experiments revealed that VNS could enhance perceptual learning performance via activation of the central cholinergic system [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR46">46</xref>].</p><p id="Par70">As observed in our study with taVNS decreasing rs-FC between bilateral Ch_123 and visually relevant cortex, we inferred that taVNS may reverse the hyperarousal state associated with primary insomnia by reducing persistent reactivity and sensitization to the environment through the bilateral Ch_123-visual circuit.</p><p id="Par71">Furthermore, a previous study identified FC between left MOG and locus coeruleus as a biomarker for predicting disease duration in chronic insomnia disorder patients [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR47">47</xref>]. Our research observed a notable association between reduced functional connectivity of both Ch_123 and the left MOG and decreased Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) scores, suggesting that the rs-FC of the bilateral Ch_123-visual circuit could serve as a promising imaging indicator of taVNS treatment effectiveness for PI. Importantly, our findings validate the support vector regression (SVR) model using baseline functional connectivity of bilateral Ch_123-visual circuit as predictors, showing strong predictive ability for taVNS treatment effectiveness in PI (<italic>r</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.520, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.0014, permutation test). This offers promising initial evidence for tailoring PI treatments based on individual characteristics, potentially shortening treatment duration and enhancing efficiency.</p></sec><sec id="Sec25"><title>Modulation of bilateral Ch_123- right mPFC circuit</title><p id="Par72">One another significant finding from this research is the impact of taVNS on the bilateral Ch_123-mPFC circuit. The mPFC, acting as a central hub in the brain[<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR48">48</xref>], contains intricate microcircuits crucial for regulating sleep&#x02013;wake cycles and consciousness [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR49">49</xref>]. It is directly involved in initiation and maintenance of various sleep stages, particularly slow-wave sleep originating from cortical and hippocampal circuit [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR50">50</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR51">51</xref>]. Prolonged wakefulness enhances mPFC excitability, characterized by increased excitatory synaptic inputs and intrinsic excitability of pyramidal neurons, underscoring the mPFC as a key region in arousal regulation and maintenance [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR52">52</xref>]. Previous study has demonstrated the effect of taVNS on modulating the functional connectivity of mPFC in patients with insomnias, as well as a significant correlation between the FC change and the decline of sleep index score [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>]. This indicates a potential of VNS in improving sleep disorders via regulating the function of mPFC in patients with insomnia.</p><p id="Par73">The basal forebrain can modulate mPFC activity through cholinergic and glutamatergic neurons, with BF-mPFC cholinergic pathways involved in high-order cognitive functions, including attention [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR53">53</xref>], working memory [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR54">54</xref>], and sleep&#x02013;wake regulation [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR55">55</xref>]. Optogenetic studies have demonstrated that specific activation of BF cholinergic neurons enhances their projections to the frontal cortex, boosting cortical EEG activity and facilitating transitions between NREM sleep and wakefulness [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR56">56</xref>]. Previous research [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR55">55</xref>] using optogenetics combined with in vivo electrophysiological recordings has shown that activation of the BF-mPFC cholinergic pathway reverses the hypnotic effects of propofol, analogous to our findings where taVNS treatment reduced functional connectivity between bilateral Ch_123 and the right mPFC, potentially attenuating the activity of the BF-mPFC cholinergic arousal pathway, thus suppressing arousal and promoting sleep maintenance.</p></sec><sec id="Sec26"><title>Modulation of the bilateral Ch_123-SMN circuit</title><p id="Par74">Our study also examined the effects of taVNS on the bilateral Ch_123-SMN circuit. The sensorimotor network integrates the supplementary motor area, primary sensorimotor area, and premotor areas to facilitate voluntary movement [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR57">57</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR58">58</xref>]. Abnormalities in bilateral SMA have been noted in FC studies and meta-analyses of chronic insomnia disorders [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR59">59</xref>], and increased FC in the SMA correlates positively with total PSQI scores [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR60">60</xref>]. Individuals with PI exhibit heightened FC between the left supplementary motor area and the right anterior cingulate gyrus [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR61">61</xref>]. Enhanced FC between the supplementary motor area and primary sensory regions contributes to prolonged sensory processing of external stimuli, which can delay falling asleep and exacerbate sleep onset difficulties [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>].</p><p id="Par75">The SMA&#x02019;s role in sensory-motor integration makes it a target and feedback indicator in various training methods. Non-invasive brain stimulation often targets the SMA for inhibitory stimulation [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR59">59</xref>]. Finger-tapping training induces significant increases in spontaneous &#x003b4; and rapid &#x003c3; oscillations in SMA, particularly during slow-wave sleep [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR62">62</xref>]. Increased positive emotions have been associated with the level of SMA activity, where individuals with shorter sleep durations exhibited higher SMA activity [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR63">63</xref>]. Previous neuroimaging studies have also shown that decreased fALFF values of bilateral SMA are an effective biomarker of taVNS treatment for PI [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR64">64</xref>]. Our findings align with these insights, suggesting that altered SMA function following taVNS may reduce sleep latency, increase slow-wave sleep, and extend sleep duration by mitigating sustained sensory-motor processing of environmental stimuli.</p><p id="Par76">However, several limitations warrant consideration. First, while we observed clinical improvements (PSQI/ISI), our trial registration did not designate these as primary endpoints, precluding definitive efficacy conclusions and suggesting our results should be interpreted as supporting mechanistic evidence. Second, the moderate sample size requires larger validation studies. Third, the 4-week intervention with only pre-post assessments limits understanding of long-term effects. Fourth, the single-center design necessitates multi-site replication.</p><p id="Par77">Methodologically, subjective sleep measures may introduce reporting bias, suggesting future studies should incorporate objective measures (e.g., polysomnography). While including patients with mild anxiety/depression enhanced ecological validity, future trials might employ stratified randomization by comorbidity status.</p><p id="Par78">Despite these limitations, our study provides important insights into taVNS&#x02019;s neural mechanisms in insomnia. Definitive confirmation of both clinical efficacy and mechanistic pathways will require larger, prospectively registered trials with dual primary endpoints.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec27"><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par79">In this single-blind, placebo-controlled clinical study, we explored both clinical outcomes and potential mechanisms of taVNS in primary insomnia patients. Our exploratory analyses suggest that active taVNS may improve sleep quality metrics and reduce insomnia severity scores compared to sham treatment after four weeks, with apparent reductions in anxiety levels. Functional connectivity analyses indicate that taVNS could modulate interactions between basal forebrain regions and cortical areas involved in visual processing, sensorimotor integration, and prefrontal regulation. Preliminary observations suggest baseline BF-visual circuit connectivity might have predictive value for individual treatment responses. The current findings provide mechanistic insights that could inform personalized taVNS approaches for insomnia management.</p></sec><sec id="Sec190" sec-type="supplementary-material"><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>
<supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM1"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4126_MOESM1_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Additional file 1: Detailed information about the independent sample; Quality control procedure to ensure patients have successfully received the treatment; Comparisons of demographic data and clinical characteristics between the main and independent samples; Table S1-Baseline demographic comparisons between the main and independent samples; Table S2-Changes in clinical outcome measurement in independent sample; Figure S1-Partial correlation analysis results of other four ROIs</p></caption></media></supplementary-material><supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM2"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4126_MOESM2_ESM.doc"><caption><p>Additional file 2</p></caption></media></supplementary-material></p></sec></body><back><glossary><title>Abbreviations</title><def-list><def-item><term>BF</term><def><p id="Par14">Basal Forebrain</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PI</term><def><p id="Par15">Primary Insomnia.</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>taVNS</term><def><p id="Par16">Transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>FC</term><def><p id="Par17">Functional connectivity</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PSQI</term><def><p id="Par18">Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ISI</term><def><p id="Par19">Insomnia Severity Index</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>SAS</term><def><p id="Par20">Zung&#x02019;s Self-Rating Anxiety Scale</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>SDS</term><def><p id="Par21">Zung&#x02019;s Self-Rating Depression Scale</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>SVR</term><def><p id="Par22">Support vector regression</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>SOG</term><def><p id="Par23">Superior occipital gyrus</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MOG</term><def><p id="Par24">Middle occipital gyrus</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>FFG</term><def><p id="Par25">Fusiform gyrus</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>SMA</term><def><p id="Par26">Supplementary motor area</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>mPFC</term><def><p id="Par27">Medial prefrontal cortex</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MS/DB</term><def><p id="Par28">Medial septum/diagonal band of Broca</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>NBM</term><def><p id="Par29">Nucleus basalis of Meynert</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>RCT</term><def><p id="Par30">Randomized controlled trial</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>rs-fMRI</term><def><p id="Par31">Resting-state functional MRI</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ANOVA</term><def><p id="Par32">Analysis of variance</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>FOV</term><def><p id="Par33">Field of view</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>TR</term><def><p id="Par34">Repetition time</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>TE</term><def><p id="Par35">Echo time</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>FWMH</term><def><p id="Par36">Full-width half-maximum</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MVPA</term><def><p id="Par37">Multivariate pattern analysis</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ROI</term><def><p id="Par38">Regions of interest</p></def></def-item></def-list></glossary><fn-group><fn><p><bold>Publisher&#x02019;s Note</bold></p><p>Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.</p></fn><fn><p>Meng Qi and Yiting Huang contributed equally to this work.</p></fn></fn-group><ack><title>Acknowledgements</title><p>Not applicable.</p></ack><notes notes-type="author-contribution"><title>Authors&#x02019; contributions</title><p>M.Q. collected the data and drafted the initial manuscript; Y.H. interpreted the data and revised the draft; R.M. and B.X. recruited and screened participants; Z.Y scanned participants and collected the data; B.L. designed the work and acquired the funding; Y.Z. designed the work, analyzed and interpreted the data, drafted and revised the manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.</p><sec id="FPar67"><title>Author&#x02019;s Twitter handles</title><p id="Par80">Yiting Huang: @hedy52138285.</p></sec></notes><notes notes-type="funding-information"><title>Funding</title><p>This study was funded by the Science and Technology Program of Guangzhou (202102010260), and the Traditional Chinese Medicine Science and Technology Project of Guangdong Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine (YN2020MS09).</p></notes><notes notes-type="data-availability"><title>Data availability</title><p>The datasets used and analyzed in the current study are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.</p></notes><notes><title>Declarations</title><notes id="FPar1"><title>Ethics approval and consent to participate</title><p id="Par81">The Ethics Committee of the Second Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou University of Traditional Chinese Medicine approved the protocol (Approval No.: ZF2019-004-02). Written informed consent was obtained from all participants prior to study enrollment.</p></notes><notes id="FPar2"><title>Consent for publication</title><p id="Par82">Not applicable.</p></notes><notes id="FPar3" notes-type="COI-statement"><title>Competing interests</title><p id="Par83">The authors declare no competing interests.</p></notes></notes><ref-list id="Bib1"><title>References</title><ref id="CR1"><label>1.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR1" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Perlis</surname><given-names>ML</given-names></name><name><surname>Posner</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Riemann</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Bastien</surname><given-names>CH</given-names></name><name><surname>Teel</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Thase</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Insomnia</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2022</year><volume>400</volume><issue>10357</issue><fpage>1047</fpage><lpage>1060</lpage><?supplied-pmid 36115372?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36115372</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR1" publication-type="journal">Perlis ML, Posner D, Riemann D, Bastien CH, Teel J, Thase M. Insomnia. Lancet. 2022;400(10357):1047&#x02013;60.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36115372</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR2"><label>2.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR2" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>De Crescenzo</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>D'Al&#x000f2;</surname><given-names>GL</given-names></name><name><surname>Ostinelli</surname><given-names>EG</given-names></name><name><surname>Ciabattini</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Di Franco</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Watanabe</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Kurtulmus</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Tomlinson</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Mitrova</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Foti</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Comparative effects of pharmacological interventions for the acute and long-term management of insomnia disorder in adults: a systematic review and network meta-analysis</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2022</year><volume>400</volume><issue>10347</issue><fpage>170</fpage><lpage>184</lpage><?supplied-pmid 35843245?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35843245</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR2" publication-type="journal">De Crescenzo F, D&#x02019;Al&#x000f2; GL, Ostinelli EG, Ciabattini M, Di Franco V, Watanabe N, Kurtulmus A, Tomlinson A, Mitrova Z, Foti F, et al. Comparative effects of pharmacological interventions for the acute and long-term management of insomnia disorder in adults: a systematic review and network meta-analysis. Lancet. 2022;400(10347):170&#x02013;84.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35843245</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR3"><label>3.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR3" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Chan</surname><given-names>NY</given-names></name><name><surname>Chan</surname><given-names>JWY</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>SX</given-names></name><name><surname>Wing</surname><given-names>YK</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Non-pharmacological approaches for management of insomnia</article-title><source>Neurotherapeutics</source><year>2021</year><volume>18</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>32</fpage><lpage>43</lpage><?supplied-pmid 33821446?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33821446</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR3" publication-type="journal">Chan NY, Chan JWY, Li SX, Wing YK. Non-pharmacological approaches for management of insomnia. Neurotherapeutics. 2021;18(1):32&#x02013;43.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33821446</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR4"><label>4.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR4" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Yuan</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Silberstein</surname><given-names>SD</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Vagus nerve and vagus nerve stimulation, a comprehensive review: part I</article-title><source>Headache</source><year>2016</year><volume>56</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>71</fpage><lpage>78</lpage><?supplied-pmid 26364692?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26364692</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR4" publication-type="journal">Yuan H, Silberstein SD. Vagus nerve and vagus nerve stimulation, a comprehensive review: part I. Headache. 2016;56(1):71&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26364692</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR5"><label>5.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR5" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Rizzo</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Beelke</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>De Carli</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Canovaro</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Nobili</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Robert</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Tanganelli</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Regesta</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Ferrillo</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Chronic vagus nerve stimulation improves alertness and reduces rapid eye movement sleep in patients affected by refractory epilepsy</article-title><source>Sleep</source><year>2003</year><volume>26</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>607</fpage><lpage>611</lpage><?supplied-pmid 12938816?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">12938816</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR5" publication-type="journal">Rizzo P, Beelke M, De Carli F, Canovaro P, Nobili L, Robert A, Tanganelli P, Regesta G, Ferrillo F. Chronic vagus nerve stimulation improves alertness and reduces rapid eye movement sleep in patients affected by refractory epilepsy. Sleep. 2003;26(5):607&#x02013;11.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">12938816</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR6"><label>6.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR6" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>JS</given-names></name><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>DE</given-names></name><name><surname>Bae</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Song</surname><given-names>JY</given-names></name><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>KI</given-names></name><name><surname>Hong</surname><given-names>SB</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Effects of vagus nerve stimulation on sleep-disordered breathing, daytime sleepiness, and sleep quality in patients with drug-resistant epilepsy</article-title><source>J Clin Neurol</source><year>2022</year><volume>18</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>315</fpage><lpage>322</lpage><?supplied-pmid 35589319?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35589319</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR6" publication-type="journal">Kim JS, Lee DE, Bae H, Song JY, Yang KI, Hong SB. Effects of vagus nerve stimulation on sleep-disordered breathing, daytime sleepiness, and sleep quality in patients with drug-resistant epilepsy. J Clin Neurol. 2022;18(3):315&#x02013;22.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35589319</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR7"><label>7.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR7" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Armitage</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Husain</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Hoffmann</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Rush</surname><given-names>AJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The effects of vagus nerve stimulation on sleep EEG in depression: a preliminary report</article-title><source>J Psychosom Res</source><year>2003</year><volume>54</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>475</fpage><lpage>482</lpage><?supplied-pmid 12726905?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">12726905</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR7" publication-type="journal">Armitage R, Husain M, Hoffmann R, Rush AJ. The effects of vagus nerve stimulation on sleep EEG in depression: a preliminary report. J Psychosom Res. 2003;54(5):475&#x02013;82.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">12726905</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR8"><label>8.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR8" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ma</surname><given-names>SN</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>XH</given-names></name><name><surname>Cai</surname><given-names>WS</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Preventive noninvasive vagal nerve stimulation reduces insufficient sleep-induced depression by improving the autonomic nervous system</article-title><source>Biomed Pharmacother</source><year>2024</year><volume>173</volume><fpage>116344</fpage><?supplied-pmid 38412716?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38412716</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR8" publication-type="journal">Ma SN, Liu XH, Cai WS. Preventive noninvasive vagal nerve stimulation reduces insufficient sleep-induced depression by improving the autonomic nervous system. Biomed Pharmacother. 2024;173: 116344.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38412716</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR9"><label>9.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Novakovic V, Sher L, Lapidus KA, Mindes J, J AG, Yehuda R: Brain stimulation in posttraumatic stress disorder. Eur J Psychotraumatol 2011, 2.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR10"><label>10.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR10" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>He</surname><given-names>JK</given-names></name><name><surname>Jia</surname><given-names>BH</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>SY</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhao</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhou</surname><given-names>ZG</given-names></name><name><surname>Bi</surname><given-names>YZ</given-names></name><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>MZ</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>JL</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation modulates the prefrontal cortex in chronic insomnia patients: fMRI Study in the first session</article-title><source>Front Neurol</source><year>2022</year><volume>13</volume><fpage>827749</fpage><?supplied-pmid 35401422?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35401422</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR10" publication-type="journal">He JK, Jia BH, Wang Y, Li SY, Zhao B, Zhou ZG, Bi YZ, Wu MZ, Li L, Zhang JL, et al. Transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation modulates the prefrontal cortex in chronic insomnia patients: fMRI Study in the first session. Front Neurol. 2022;13: 827749.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35401422</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR11"><label>11.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR11" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Luo</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Qu</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhao</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhao</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Jiao</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Rong</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Transcutaneous vagus nerve stimulation for primary insomnia and affective disorder:a report of 35 cases</article-title><source>Zhongguo Zhen Jiu</source><year>2017</year><volume>37</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>269</fpage><lpage>273</lpage><?supplied-pmid 29231433?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29231433</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR11" publication-type="journal">Luo M, Qu X, Li S, Zhao J, Zhao Y, Jiao Y, Rong P. Transcutaneous vagus nerve stimulation for primary insomnia and affective disorder:a report of 35 cases. Zhongguo Zhen Jiu. 2017;37(3):269&#x02013;73.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29231433</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR12"><label>12.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR12" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>He</surname><given-names>JK</given-names></name><name><surname>Meng</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhao</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhao</surname><given-names>YN</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>SY</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>MZ</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Effects of transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation on brain functional connectivity of medial prefrontal cortex in patients with primary insomnia</article-title><source>Anat Rec (Hoboken)</source><year>2021</year><volume>304</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>2426</fpage><lpage>2435</lpage><?supplied-pmid 34623769?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34623769</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR12" publication-type="journal">Zhang S, He JK, Meng H, Zhao B, Zhao YN, Wang Y, Li SY, Wang L, Wu MZ, Chen Y, et al. Effects of transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation on brain functional connectivity of medial prefrontal cortex in patients with primary insomnia. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2021;304(11):2426&#x02013;35.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34623769</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR13"><label>13.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR13" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Jiao</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Guo</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Luo</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhao</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhao</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Zheng</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Effect of transcutaneous vagus nerve stimulation at auricular concha for insomnia: a randomized clinical trial</article-title><source>Evid Based Complement Alternat Med</source><year>2020</year><volume>2020</volume><fpage>6049891</fpage><?supplied-pmid 32831871?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32831871</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR13" publication-type="journal">Jiao Y, Guo X, Luo M, Li S, Liu A, Zhao Y, Zhao B, Wang D, Li Z, Zheng X, et al. Effect of transcutaneous vagus nerve stimulation at auricular concha for insomnia: a randomized clinical trial. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2020;2020:6049891.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32831871</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR14"><label>14.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Wu Y, Song L, Wang X, Li N, Zhan S, Rong P, Wang Y, Liu A: Transcutaneous vagus nerve stimulation could improve the effective rate on the quality of sleep in the treatment of primary insomnia: a randomized control trial. Brain Sci 2022, 12(10).</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR15"><label>15.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR15" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Koko&#x00161;ov&#x000e1;</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Vojt&#x000ed;&#x00161;ek</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Bal&#x000e1;&#x0017e;</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Mangia</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Michaeli</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Filip</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Sleep quality and the integrity of ascending reticular activating system - a multimodal MRI study</article-title><source>Heliyon</source><year>2024</year><volume>10</volume><issue>22</issue><fpage>e40192</fpage><?supplied-pmid 39748972?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39748972</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR15" publication-type="journal">Koko&#x00161;ov&#x000e1; V, Vojt&#x000ed;&#x00161;ek L, Bal&#x000e1;&#x0017e; M, Mangia S, Michaeli S, Filip P. Sleep quality and the integrity of ascending reticular activating system - a multimodal MRI study. Heliyon. 2024;10(22):e40192.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39748972</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR16"><label>16.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR16" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Krone</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Frase</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Piosczyk</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Selhausen</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Zittel</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Jahn</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Kuhn</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Feige</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Mainberger</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Kl&#x000f6;ppel</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Top-down control of arousal and sleep: fundamentals and clinical implications</article-title><source>Sleep Med Rev</source><year>2017</year><volume>31</volume><fpage>17</fpage><lpage>24</lpage><?supplied-pmid 26883160?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26883160</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR16" publication-type="journal">Krone L, Frase L, Piosczyk H, Selhausen P, Zittel S, Jahn F, Kuhn M, Feige B, Mainberger F, Kl&#x000f6;ppel S, et al. Top-down control of arousal and sleep: fundamentals and clinical implications. Sleep Med Rev. 2017;31:17&#x02013;24.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26883160</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR17"><label>17.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR17" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>JH</given-names></name><name><surname>Jung</surname><given-names>AH</given-names></name><name><surname>Jeong</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Choi</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Shin</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>SJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>SH</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Selectivity of neuromodulatory projections from the basal forebrain and locus ceruleus to primary sensory cortices</article-title><source>J Neurosci</source><year>2016</year><volume>36</volume><issue>19</issue><fpage>5314</fpage><lpage>5327</lpage><?supplied-pmid 27170128?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27170128</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR17" publication-type="journal">Kim JH, Jung AH, Jeong D, Choi I, Kim K, Shin S, Kim SJ, Lee SH. Selectivity of neuromodulatory projections from the basal forebrain and locus ceruleus to primary sensory cortices. J Neurosci. 2016;36(19):5314&#x02013;27.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27170128</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR18"><label>18.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR18" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Chung</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhong</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Ma</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Chang</surname><given-names>WC</given-names></name><name><surname>Weissbourd</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Sakai</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Luo</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Nishino</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Basal forebrain circuit for sleep-wake control</article-title><source>Nat Neurosci</source><year>2015</year><volume>18</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>1641</fpage><lpage>1647</lpage><?supplied-pmid 26457552?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26457552</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR18" publication-type="journal">Xu M, Chung S, Zhang S, Zhong P, Ma C, Chang WC, Weissbourd B, Sakai N, Luo L, Nishino S, et al. Basal forebrain circuit for sleep-wake control. Nat Neurosci. 2015;18(11):1641&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26457552</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR19"><label>19.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR19" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Irmak</surname><given-names>SO</given-names></name><name><surname>de Lecea</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Basal forebrain cholinergic modulation of sleep transitions</article-title><source>Sleep</source><year>2014</year><volume>37</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>1941</fpage><lpage>1951</lpage><?supplied-pmid 25325504?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25325504</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR19" publication-type="journal">Irmak SO, de Lecea L. Basal forebrain cholinergic modulation of sleep transitions. Sleep. 2014;37(12):1941&#x02013;51.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25325504</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR20"><label>20.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR20" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kaur</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Junek</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Black</surname><given-names>MA</given-names></name><name><surname>Semba</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Effects of ibotenate and 192IgG-saporin lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis/substantia innominata on spontaneous sleep and wake states and on recovery sleep after sleep deprivation in rats</article-title><source>J Neurosci</source><year>2008</year><volume>28</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>491</fpage><lpage>504</lpage><?supplied-pmid 18184792?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18184792</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR20" publication-type="journal">Kaur S, Junek A, Black MA, Semba K. Effects of ibotenate and 192IgG-saporin lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis/substantia innominata on spontaneous sleep and wake states and on recovery sleep after sleep deprivation in rats. J Neurosci. 2008;28(2):491&#x02013;504.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18184792</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR21"><label>21.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR21" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kajimura</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Nishikawa</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Uchiyama</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Kato</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Watanabe</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Nakajima</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Hori</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Nakabayashi</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Sekimoto</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Ogawa</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Deactivation by benzodiazepine of the basal forebrain and amygdala in normal humans during sleep: a placebo-controlled [15O]H2O PET study</article-title><source>Am J Psychiatry</source><year>2004</year><volume>161</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>748</fpage><lpage>751</lpage><?supplied-pmid 15056525?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15056525</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR21" publication-type="journal">Kajimura N, Nishikawa M, Uchiyama M, Kato M, Watanabe T, Nakajima T, Hori T, Nakabayashi T, Sekimoto M, Ogawa K, et al. Deactivation by benzodiazepine of the basal forebrain and amygdala in normal humans during sleep: a placebo-controlled [15O]H2O PET study. Am J Psychiatry. 2004;161(4):748&#x02013;51.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15056525</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR22"><label>22.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR22" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Mesulam</surname><given-names>MM</given-names></name><name><surname>Mufson</surname><given-names>EJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Levey</surname><given-names>AI</given-names></name><name><surname>Wainer</surname><given-names>BH</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Cholinergic innervation of cortex by the basal forebrain: cytochemistry and cortical connections of the septal area, diagonal band nuclei, nucleus basalis (substantia innominata), and hypothalamus in the rhesus monkey</article-title><source>J Comp Neurol</source><year>1983</year><volume>214</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>170</fpage><lpage>197</lpage><?supplied-pmid 6841683?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">6841683</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR22" publication-type="journal">Mesulam MM, Mufson EJ, Levey AI, Wainer BH. Cholinergic innervation of cortex by the basal forebrain: cytochemistry and cortical connections of the septal area, diagonal band nuclei, nucleus basalis (substantia innominata), and hypothalamus in the rhesus monkey. J Comp Neurol. 1983;214(2):170&#x02013;97.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">6841683</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR23"><label>23.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR23" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Fritz</surname><given-names>HJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Ray</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Dyrba</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Sorg</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Teipel</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Grothe</surname><given-names>MJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The corticotopic organization of the human basal forebrain as revealed by regionally selective functional connectivity profiles</article-title><source>Hum Brain Mapp</source><year>2019</year><volume>40</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>868</fpage><lpage>878</lpage><?supplied-pmid 30311315?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30311315</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR23" publication-type="journal">Fritz HJ, Ray N, Dyrba M, Sorg C, Teipel S, Grothe MJ. The corticotopic organization of the human basal forebrain as revealed by regionally selective functional connectivity profiles. Hum Brain Mapp. 2019;40(3):868&#x02013;78.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30311315</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR24"><label>24.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR24" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Jiang</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Feng</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Wen</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Shen</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Distinct alterations of functional connectivity of the basal forebrain subregions in insomnia disorder</article-title><source>Front Psychiatry</source><year>2022</year><volume>13</volume><fpage>1036997</fpage><?supplied-pmid 36311494?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36311494</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR24" publication-type="journal">Jiang G, Feng Y, Li M, Wen H, Wang T, Shen Y, Chen Z, Li S. Distinct alterations of functional connectivity of the basal forebrain subregions in insomnia disorder. Front Psychiatry. 2022;13:1036997.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36311494</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR25"><label>25.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR25" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Killgore</surname><given-names>WD</given-names></name><name><surname>Schwab</surname><given-names>ZJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Kipman</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Deldonno</surname><given-names>SR</given-names></name><name><surname>Weber</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Insomnia-related complaints correlate with functional connectivity between sensory-motor regions</article-title><source>NeuroReport</source><year>2013</year><volume>24</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>233</fpage><lpage>240</lpage><?supplied-pmid 23399993?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23399993</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR25" publication-type="journal">Killgore WD, Schwab ZJ, Kipman M, Deldonno SR, Weber M. Insomnia-related complaints correlate with functional connectivity between sensory-motor regions. NeuroReport. 2013;24(5):233&#x02013;40.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23399993</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR26"><label>26.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR26" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Maness</surname><given-names>EB</given-names></name><name><surname>Burk</surname><given-names>JA</given-names></name><name><surname>McKenna</surname><given-names>JT</given-names></name><name><surname>Schiffino</surname><given-names>FL</given-names></name><name><surname>Strecker</surname><given-names>RE</given-names></name><name><surname>McCoy</surname><given-names>JG</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Role of the locus coeruleus and basal forebrain in arousal and attention</article-title><source>Brain Res Bull</source><year>2022</year><volume>188</volume><fpage>47</fpage><lpage>58</lpage><?supplied-pmid 35878679?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35878679</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR26" publication-type="journal">Maness EB, Burk JA, McKenna JT, Schiffino FL, Strecker RE, McCoy JG. Role of the locus coeruleus and basal forebrain in arousal and attention. Brain Res Bull. 2022;188:47&#x02013;58.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35878679</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR27"><label>27.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR27" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lan</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Tan</surname><given-names>HJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Xing</surname><given-names>JJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>FS</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>LX</given-names></name><name><surname>Liang</surname><given-names>FR</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Auricular acupuncture with seed or pellet attachments for primary insomnia: a systematic review and meta-analysis</article-title><source>BMC Complement Altern Med</source><year>2015</year><volume>15</volume><fpage>103</fpage><?supplied-pmid 25886561?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25886561</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR27" publication-type="journal">Lan Y, Wu X, Tan HJ, Wu N, Xing JJ, Wu FS, Zhang LX, Liang FR. Auricular acupuncture with seed or pellet attachments for primary insomnia: a systematic review and meta-analysis. BMC Complement Altern Med. 2015;15:103.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25886561</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR28"><label>28.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">S Z: The study on the efficacy and brain imaging characteristics of transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation in the treatment of insomnia disorder. Doctoral dissertation. China Academy of Chinese Medical Science; 2023.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR29"><label>29.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Association AP: Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders, 5th edn American Psychiatric Publishing,Arlington, VA 82013, 21(5):9</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR30"><label>30.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR30" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Knight</surname><given-names>RG</given-names></name><name><surname>Waal-Manning</surname><given-names>HJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Spears</surname><given-names>GF</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Some norms and reliability data for the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory and the Zung Self-Rating Depression scale</article-title><source>Br J Clin Psychol</source><year>1983</year><volume>22</volume><issue>Pt 4</issue><fpage>245</fpage><lpage>249</lpage><?supplied-pmid 6640176?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">6640176</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR30" publication-type="journal">Knight RG, Waal-Manning HJ, Spears GF. Some norms and reliability data for the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory and the Zung Self-Rating Depression scale. Br J Clin Psychol. 1983;22(Pt 4):245&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">6640176</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR31"><label>31.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR31" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Gainotti</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Cianchetti</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Taramelli</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Tiacci</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The guided self-rating anxiety-depression scale for use in clinical psychopharmacology</article-title><source>Act Nerv Super (Praha)</source><year>1972</year><volume>14</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>49</fpage><lpage>51</lpage><?supplied-pmid 5022653?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">5022653</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR31" publication-type="journal">Gainotti G, Cianchetti C, Taramelli M, Tiacci C. The guided self-rating anxiety-depression scale for use in clinical psychopharmacology. Act Nerv Super (Praha). 1972;14(1):49&#x02013;51.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">5022653</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR32"><label>32.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR32" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Yan</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Cao</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Park</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Wilson</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Kong</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation at 1 Hz modulates locus coeruleus activity and resting state functional connectivity in patients with migraine: An fMRI study</article-title><source>Neuroimage Clin</source><year>2019</year><volume>24</volume><fpage>101971</fpage><?supplied-pmid 31648171?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31648171</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR32" publication-type="journal">Zhang Y, Liu J, Li H, Yan Z, Liu X, Cao J, Park J, Wilson G, Liu B, Kong J. Transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation at 1 Hz modulates locus coeruleus activity and resting state functional connectivity in patients with migraine: An fMRI study. Neuroimage Clin. 2019;24: 101971.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31648171</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR33"><label>33.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR33" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Yan</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Hou</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Tu</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Hodges</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation (taVNS) for migraine: an fMRI study</article-title><source>Reg Anesth Pain Med</source><year>2021</year><volume>46</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>145</fpage><lpage>150</lpage><?supplied-pmid 33262253?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33262253</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR33" publication-type="journal">Zhang Y, Huang Y, Li H, Yan Z, Zhang Y, Liu X, Hou X, Chen W, Tu Y, Hodges S, et al. Transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation (taVNS) for migraine: an fMRI study. Reg Anesth Pain Med. 2021;46(2):145&#x02013;50.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33262253</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR34"><label>34.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR34" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Faul</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Erdfelder</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Lang</surname><given-names>AG</given-names></name><name><surname>Buchner</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>G*Power 3: a flexible statistical power analysis program for the social, behavioral, and biomedical sciences</article-title><source>Behav Res Methods</source><year>2007</year><volume>39</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>175</fpage><lpage>191</lpage><?supplied-pmid 17695343?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17695343</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR34" publication-type="journal">Faul F, Erdfelder E, Lang AG, Buchner A. G*Power 3: a flexible statistical power analysis program for the social, behavioral, and biomedical sciences. Behav Res Methods. 2007;39(2):175&#x02013;91.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17695343</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR35"><label>35.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Cohen J: Statistical power analysis for the behavioral sciences (2nd ed.), vol. Lawrence Erlbaum Associates ,Publishers; 1988.2.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR36"><label>36.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR36" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ma</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Fu</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Yin</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Tian</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Jiang</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Aberrant functional connectivity of basal forebrain subregions with cholinergic system in short-term and chronic insomnia disorder</article-title><source>J Affect Disord</source><year>2021</year><volume>278</volume><fpage>481</fpage><lpage>487</lpage><?supplied-pmid 33011526?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33011526</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR36" publication-type="journal">Ma X, Fu S, Yin Y, Wu Y, Wang T, Xu G, Liu M, Xu Y, Tian J, Jiang G. Aberrant functional connectivity of basal forebrain subregions with cholinergic system in short-term and chronic insomnia disorder. J Affect Disord. 2021;278:481&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33011526</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR37"><label>37.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR37" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>CS</given-names></name><name><surname>Ide</surname><given-names>JS</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Hu</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Chao</surname><given-names>HH</given-names></name><name><surname>Zaborszky</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Resting state functional connectivity of the basal nucleus of Meynert in humans: in comparison to the ventral striatum and the effects of age</article-title><source>Neuroimage</source><year>2014</year><volume>97</volume><fpage>321</fpage><lpage>332</lpage><?supplied-pmid 24736176?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24736176</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR37" publication-type="journal">Li CS, Ide JS, Zhang S, Hu S, Chao HH, Zaborszky L. Resting state functional connectivity of the basal nucleus of Meynert in humans: in comparison to the ventral striatum and the effects of age. Neuroimage. 2014;97:321&#x02013;32.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24736176</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR38"><label>38.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR38" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zaborszky</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Hoemke</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Mohlberg</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Schleicher</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Amunts</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Zilles</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Stereotaxic probabilistic maps of the magnocellular cell groups in human basal forebrain</article-title><source>Neuroimage</source><year>2008</year><volume>42</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>1127</fpage><lpage>1141</lpage><?supplied-pmid 18585468?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18585468</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR38" publication-type="journal">Zaborszky L, Hoemke L, Mohlberg H, Schleicher A, Amunts K, Zilles K. Stereotaxic probabilistic maps of the magnocellular cell groups in human basal forebrain. Neuroimage. 2008;42(3):1127&#x02013;41.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18585468</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR39"><label>39.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR39" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Dong</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Lei</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Hard to initiate sleep: a new paradigm for resting-state fMRI</article-title><source>Cogn Neurodyn</source><year>2021</year><volume>15</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>825</fpage><lpage>833</lpage><?supplied-pmid 34603544?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34603544</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR39" publication-type="journal">Yang T, Dong X, Lei X. Hard to initiate sleep: a new paradigm for resting-state fMRI. Cogn Neurodyn. 2021;15(5):825&#x02013;33.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34603544</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR40"><label>40.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR40" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>McCrae</surname><given-names>CS</given-names></name><name><surname>Craggs</surname><given-names>JG</given-names></name><name><surname>Curtis</surname><given-names>AF</given-names></name><name><surname>Nair</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Kay</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Staud</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Berry</surname><given-names>RB</given-names></name><name><surname>Robinson</surname><given-names>ME</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Neural activation changes in response to pain following cognitive behavioral therapy for patients with comorbid fibromyalgia and insomnia: a pilot study</article-title><source>J Clin Sleep Med</source><year>2022</year><volume>18</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>203</fpage><lpage>215</lpage><?supplied-pmid 34310276?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34310276</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR40" publication-type="journal">McCrae CS, Craggs JG, Curtis AF, Nair N, Kay D, Staud R, Berry RB, Robinson ME. Neural activation changes in response to pain following cognitive behavioral therapy for patients with comorbid fibromyalgia and insomnia: a pilot study. J Clin Sleep Med. 2022;18(1):203&#x02013;15.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34310276</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR41"><label>41.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR41" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Cao</surname><given-names>HJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Yu</surname><given-names>ML</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>LQ</given-names></name><name><surname>Fei</surname><given-names>YT</given-names></name><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>JP</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Acupuncture for primary insomnia: an updated systematic review of randomized controlled trials</article-title><source>J Altern Complement Med</source><year>2019</year><volume>25</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>451</fpage><lpage>474</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31013432?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31013432</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR41" publication-type="journal">Cao HJ, Yu ML, Wang LQ, Fei YT, Xu H, Liu JP. Acupuncture for primary insomnia: an updated systematic review of randomized controlled trials. J Altern Complement Med. 2019;25(5):451&#x02013;74.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31013432</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR42"><label>42.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Olufsen IS, S&#x000f8;rensen ME, Bjorvatn B: New diagnostic criteria for insomnia and the association between insomnia, anxiety and depression. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen2020, 140(1).</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR43"><label>43.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR43" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Burger</surname><given-names>AM</given-names></name><name><surname>Van Diest</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Van der Does</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Korbee</surname><given-names>JN</given-names></name><name><surname>Waziri</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Brosschot</surname><given-names>JF</given-names></name><name><surname>Verkuil</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The effect of transcutaneous vagus nerve stimulation on fear generalization and subsequent fear extinction</article-title><source>Neurobiol Learn Mem</source><year>2019</year><volume>161</volume><fpage>192</fpage><lpage>201</lpage><?supplied-pmid 30986531?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30986531</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR43" publication-type="journal">Burger AM, Van Diest I, Van der Does W, Korbee JN, Waziri N, Brosschot JF, Verkuil B. The effect of transcutaneous vagus nerve stimulation on fear generalization and subsequent fear extinction. Neurobiol Learn Mem. 2019;161:192&#x02013;201.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30986531</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR44"><label>44.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR44" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Konen</surname><given-names>CS</given-names></name><name><surname>Behrmann</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Nishimura</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Kastner</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The functional neuroanatomy of object agnosia: a case study</article-title><source>Neuron</source><year>2011</year><volume>71</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>49</fpage><lpage>60</lpage><?supplied-pmid 21745637?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21745637</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR44" publication-type="journal">Konen CS, Behrmann M, Nishimura M, Kastner S. The functional neuroanatomy of object agnosia: a case study. Neuron. 2011;71(1):49&#x02013;60.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21745637</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR45"><label>45.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR45" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Vandenbulcke</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Peeters</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Fannes</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Vandenberghe</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Knowledge of visual attributes in the right hemisphere</article-title><source>Nat Neurosci</source><year>2006</year><volume>9</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>964</fpage><lpage>970</lpage><?supplied-pmid 16767090?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">16767090</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR45" publication-type="journal">Vandenbulcke M, Peeters R, Fannes K, Vandenberghe R. Knowledge of visual attributes in the right hemisphere. Nat Neurosci. 2006;9(7):964&#x02013;70.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">16767090</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR46"><label>46.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR46" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Martin</surname><given-names>KA</given-names></name><name><surname>Papadoyannis</surname><given-names>ES</given-names></name><name><surname>Schiavo</surname><given-names>JK</given-names></name><name><surname>Fadaei</surname><given-names>SS</given-names></name><name><surname>Issa</surname><given-names>HA</given-names></name><name><surname>Song</surname><given-names>SC</given-names></name><name><surname>Valencia</surname><given-names>SO</given-names></name><name><surname>Temiz</surname><given-names>NZ</given-names></name><name><surname>McGinley</surname><given-names>MJ</given-names></name><name><surname>McCormick</surname><given-names>DA</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Vagus nerve stimulation recruits the central cholinergic system to enhance perceptual learning</article-title><source>Nat Neurosci</source><year>2024</year><volume>27</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>2152</fpage><lpage>2166</lpage><?supplied-pmid 39284963?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39284963</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR46" publication-type="journal">Martin KA, Papadoyannis ES, Schiavo JK, Fadaei SS, Issa HA, Song SC, Valencia SO, Temiz NZ, McGinley MJ, McCormick DA, et al. Vagus nerve stimulation recruits the central cholinergic system to enhance perceptual learning. Nat Neurosci. 2024;27(11):2152&#x02013;66.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39284963</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR47"><label>47.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR47" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Gong</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Shi</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Yu</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Ding</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Xi</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The abnormal functional connectivity in the locus coeruleus-norepinephrine system associated with anxiety symptom in chronic insomnia disorder</article-title><source>Front Neurosci</source><year>2021</year><volume>15</volume><fpage>678465</fpage><?supplied-pmid 34093121?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34093121</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR47" publication-type="journal">Gong L, Shi M, Wang J, Xu R, Yu S, Liu D, Ding X, Zhang B, Zhang X, Xi C. The abnormal functional connectivity in the locus coeruleus-norepinephrine system associated with anxiety symptom in chronic insomnia disorder. Front Neurosci. 2021;15: 678465.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34093121</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR48"><label>48.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Klune CB, Jin B, DeNardo LA: Linking mPFC circuit maturation to the developmental regulation of emotional memory and cognitive flexibility. Elife. 2021;10.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR49"><label>49.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR49" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhu</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Ni</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Xin</surname><given-names>Q</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhou</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Gao</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Gao</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Ma</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Dynamics of a disinhibitory prefrontal microcircuit in controlling social competition</article-title><source>Neuron</source><year>2022</year><volume>110</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>516</fpage><lpage>531.e516</lpage><?supplied-pmid 34793692?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34793692</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR49" publication-type="journal">Zhang C, Zhu H, Ni Z, Xin Q, Zhou T, Wu R, Gao G, Gao Z, Ma H, Li H, et al. Dynamics of a disinhibitory prefrontal microcircuit in controlling social competition. Neuron. 2022;110(3):516-531.e516.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34793692</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR50"><label>50.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR50" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Maquet</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Functional neuroimaging of normal human sleep by positron emission tomography</article-title><source>J Sleep Res</source><year>2000</year><volume>9</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>207</fpage><lpage>231</lpage><?supplied-pmid 11012860?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">11012860</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR50" publication-type="journal">Maquet P. Functional neuroimaging of normal human sleep by positron emission tomography. J Sleep Res. 2000;9(3):207&#x02013;31.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">11012860</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR51"><label>51.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR51" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Schwindel</surname><given-names>CD</given-names></name><name><surname>McNaughton</surname><given-names>BL</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Hippocampal-cortical interactions and the dynamics of memory trace reactivation</article-title><source>Prog Brain Res</source><year>2011</year><volume>193</volume><fpage>163</fpage><lpage>177</lpage><?supplied-pmid 21854962?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21854962</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR51" publication-type="journal">Schwindel CD, McNaughton BL. Hippocampal-cortical interactions and the dynamics of memory trace reactivation. Prog Brain Res. 2011;193:163&#x02013;77.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21854962</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR52"><label>52.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR52" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Hong</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Lozano</surname><given-names>DE</given-names></name><name><surname>Beier</surname><given-names>KT</given-names></name><name><surname>Chung</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Weber</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Prefrontal cortical regulation of REM sleep</article-title><source>Nat Neurosci</source><year>2023</year><volume>26</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>1820</fpage><lpage>1832</lpage><?supplied-pmid 37735498?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37735498</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR52" publication-type="journal">Hong J, Lozano DE, Beier KT, Chung S, Weber F. Prefrontal cortical regulation of REM sleep. Nat Neurosci. 2023;26(10):1820&#x02013;32.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37735498</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR53"><label>53.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR53" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bloem</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Schoppink</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Rotaru</surname><given-names>DC</given-names></name><name><surname>Faiz</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Hendriks</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Mansvelder</surname><given-names>HD</given-names></name><name><surname>van de Berg</surname><given-names>WD</given-names></name><name><surname>Wouterlood</surname><given-names>FG</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Topographic mapping between basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and the medial prefrontal cortex in mice</article-title><source>J Neurosci</source><year>2014</year><volume>34</volume><issue>49</issue><fpage>16234</fpage><lpage>16246</lpage><?supplied-pmid 25471564?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25471564</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR53" publication-type="journal">Bloem B, Schoppink L, Rotaru DC, Faiz A, Hendriks P, Mansvelder HD, van de Berg WD, Wouterlood FG. Topographic mapping between basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and the medial prefrontal cortex in mice. J Neurosci. 2014;34(49):16234&#x02013;46.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25471564</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR54"><label>54.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR54" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Dalley</surname><given-names>JW</given-names></name><name><surname>Theobald</surname><given-names>DE</given-names></name><name><surname>Bouger</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Chudasama</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Cardinal</surname><given-names>RN</given-names></name><name><surname>Robbins</surname><given-names>TW</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Cortical cholinergic function and deficits in visual attentional performance in rats following 192 IgG-saporin-induced lesions of the medial prefrontal cortex</article-title><source>Cereb Cortex</source><year>2004</year><volume>14</volume><issue>8</issue><fpage>922</fpage><lpage>932</lpage><?supplied-pmid 15084496?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15084496</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR54" publication-type="journal">Dalley JW, Theobald DE, Bouger P, Chudasama Y, Cardinal RN, Robbins TW. Cortical cholinergic function and deficits in visual attentional performance in rats following 192 IgG-saporin-induced lesions of the medial prefrontal cortex. Cereb Cortex. 2004;14(8):922&#x02013;32.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15084496</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR55"><label>55.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR55" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Gao</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Sun</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Ding</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Ren</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Yu</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Cholinergic-induced specific oscillations in the medial prefrontal cortex to reverse propofol anesthesia</article-title><source>Front Neurosci</source><year>2021</year><volume>15</volume><fpage>664410</fpage><?supplied-pmid 34121993?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34121993</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR55" publication-type="journal">Wang L, Zhang W, Wu Y, Gao Y, Sun N, Ding H, Ren J, Yu L, Wang L, Yang F, et al. Cholinergic-induced specific oscillations in the medial prefrontal cortex to reverse propofol anesthesia. Front Neurosci. 2021;15: 664410.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34121993</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR56"><label>56.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR56" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zant</surname><given-names>JC</given-names></name><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Prokai</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Szarka</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>McNally</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>McKenna</surname><given-names>JT</given-names></name><name><surname>Shukla</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Kalinchuk</surname><given-names>AV</given-names></name><name><surname>McCarley</surname><given-names>RW</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain promote wakefulness by actions on neighboring non-cholinergic neurons: an opto-dialysis study</article-title><source>J Neurosci</source><year>2016</year><volume>36</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>2057</fpage><lpage>2067</lpage><?supplied-pmid 26865627?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26865627</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR56" publication-type="journal">Zant JC, Kim T, Prokai L, Szarka S, McNally J, McKenna JT, Shukla C, Yang C, Kalinchuk AV, McCarley RW, et al. Cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain promote wakefulness by actions on neighboring non-cholinergic neurons: an opto-dialysis study. J Neurosci. 2016;36(6):2057&#x02013;67.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26865627</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR57"><label>57.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR57" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Caspers</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Rubbert</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Eickhoff</surname><given-names>SB</given-names></name><name><surname>Hoffstaedter</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>S&#x000fc;dmeyer</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Hartmann</surname><given-names>CJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Sigl</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Teichert</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Aissa</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Turowski</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Within- and across-network alterations of the sensorimotor network in Parkinson&#x02019;s disease</article-title><source>Neuroradiology</source><year>2021</year><volume>63</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>2073</fpage><lpage>2085</lpage><?supplied-pmid 34019112?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34019112</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR57" publication-type="journal">Caspers J, Rubbert C, Eickhoff SB, Hoffstaedter F, S&#x000fc;dmeyer M, Hartmann CJ, Sigl B, Teichert N, Aissa J, Turowski B, et al. Within- and across-network alterations of the sensorimotor network in Parkinson&#x02019;s disease. Neuroradiology. 2021;63(12):2073&#x02013;85.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34019112</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR58"><label>58.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR58" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>De Luca</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Smith</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>De Stefano</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Federico</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Matthews</surname><given-names>PM</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Blood oxygenation level dependent contrast resting state networks are relevant to functional activity in the neocortical sensorimotor system</article-title><source>Exp Brain Res</source><year>2005</year><volume>167</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>587</fpage><lpage>594</lpage><?supplied-pmid 16284751?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">16284751</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR58" publication-type="journal">De Luca M, Smith S, De Stefano N, Federico A, Matthews PM. Blood oxygenation level dependent contrast resting state networks are relevant to functional activity in the neocortical sensorimotor system. Exp Brain Res. 2005;167(4):587&#x02013;94.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">16284751</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR59"><label>59.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR59" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Gong</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Qin</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Bi</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Xi</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>New potential stimulation targets for noninvasive brain stimulation treatment of chronic insomnia</article-title><source>Sleep Med</source><year>2020</year><volume>75</volume><fpage>380</fpage><lpage>387</lpage><?supplied-pmid 32950883?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32950883</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR59" publication-type="journal">Gong L, Xu R, Qin M, Liu D, Zhang B, Bi Y, Xi C. New potential stimulation targets for noninvasive brain stimulation treatment of chronic insomnia. Sleep Med. 2020;75:380&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32950883</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR60"><label>60.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR60" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bai</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Tan</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Cui</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Yin</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Resting-state functional connectivity of the sensory/somatomotor network associated with sleep quality: evidence from 202 young male samples</article-title><source>Brain Imaging Behav</source><year>2022</year><volume>16</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>1832</fpage><lpage>1841</lpage><?supplied-pmid 35381969?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35381969</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR60" publication-type="journal">Bai Y, Tan J, Liu X, Cui X, Li D, Yin H. Resting-state functional connectivity of the sensory/somatomotor network associated with sleep quality: evidence from 202 young male samples. Brain Imaging Behav. 2022;16(4):1832&#x02013;41.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35381969</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR61"><label>61.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR61" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ji</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Dai</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Guo</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Cao</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Functional connectivity density in the sensorimotor area is associated with sleep latency in patients with primary insomnia</article-title><source>Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat</source><year>2022</year><volume>18</volume><fpage>1</fpage><lpage>10</lpage><?supplied-pmid 35035217?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35035217</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR61" publication-type="journal">Ji B, Dai M, Guo Z, Li J, Cao Y, Zhang Z, Zhang Y, Liu X. Functional connectivity density in the sensorimotor area is associated with sleep latency in patients with primary insomnia. Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat. 2022;18:1&#x02013;10.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35035217</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR62"><label>62.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR62" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Tamaki</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>TR</given-names></name><name><surname>Yotsumoto</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>H&#x000e4;m&#x000e4;l&#x000e4;inen</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Lin</surname><given-names>FH</given-names></name><name><surname>N&#x000e1;&#x000f1;ez</surname><given-names>JE</given-names><suffix>Sr</suffix></name><name><surname>Watanabe</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Sasaki</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Enhanced spontaneous oscillations in the supplementary motor area are associated with sleep-dependent offline learning of finger-tapping motor-sequence task</article-title><source>J Neurosci</source><year>2013</year><volume>33</volume><issue>34</issue><fpage>13894</fpage><lpage>13902</lpage><?supplied-pmid 23966709?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23966709</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR62" publication-type="journal">Tamaki M, Huang TR, Yotsumoto Y, H&#x000e4;m&#x000e4;l&#x000e4;inen M, Lin FH, N&#x000e1;&#x000f1;ez JE Sr, Watanabe T, Sasaki Y. Enhanced spontaneous oscillations in the supplementary motor area are associated with sleep-dependent offline learning of finger-tapping motor-sequence task. J Neurosci. 2013;33(34):13894&#x02013;902.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23966709</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR63"><label>63.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Stepan M, Buysse D, Siegle G, Hasler B, Soehner A, Franzen P: Sleep disturbance is associated with dysregulation of positive and negative affect systems. In: Sleep: 2022: OXFORD UNIV PRESS INC JOURNALS DEPT, 2001 EVANS RD, CARY, NC 27513 USA; 2022: A111-A111.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR64"><label>64.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR64" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Luo</surname><given-names>WT</given-names></name><name><surname>Mai</surname><given-names>RR</given-names></name><name><surname>Hou</surname><given-names>XY</given-names></name><name><surname>Xia</surname><given-names>ZQ</given-names></name><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>BY</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Brain functional mechanisms determining the efficacy of transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation in primary insomnia</article-title><source>Front Neurosci</source><year>2021</year><volume>15</volume><fpage>609640</fpage><?supplied-pmid 33776631?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33776631</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR64" publication-type="journal">Wu X, Zhang Y, Luo WT, Mai RR, Hou XY, Xia ZQ, Xu BY, Liu B. Brain functional mechanisms determining the efficacy of transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation in primary insomnia. Front Neurosci. 2021;15:609640.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33776631</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref></ref-list></back></article>