# A metric to measure long-term well-being of people living with HIV in Spain.

<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//NLM//DTD JATS (Z39.96) Journal Archiving and Interchange DTD with MathML3 v1.3 20210610//EN" "JATS-archivearticle1-3-mathml3.dtd"> 
<article xmlns:ali="http://www.niso.org/schemas/ali/1.0/" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" article-type="research-article" dtd-version="1.3"><?properties open_access?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierValue -//Springer-Verlag//DTD A++ V2.4//EN?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierType public?><?SourceDTD.DTDName A++V2.4.dtd?><?SourceDTD.Version 2.4?><?ConverterInfo.XSLTName springer2nlmx2.xsl?><?ConverterInfo.Version 1?><processing-meta base-tagset="archiving" mathml-version="3.0" table-model="xhtml" tagset-family="jats"><restricted-by>pmc</restricted-by></processing-meta><front><journal-meta><journal-id journal-id-type="nlm-ta">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-id journal-id-type="iso-abbrev">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-title-group><journal-title>BMC Medicine</journal-title></journal-title-group><issn pub-type="epub">1741-7015</issn><publisher><publisher-name>BioMed Central</publisher-name><publisher-loc>London</publisher-loc></publisher></journal-meta>
<article-meta><article-id pub-id-type="pmcid">12326720</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="pmid">40765012</article-id>
<article-id pub-id-type="publisher-id">4300</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12916-025-04300-x</article-id><article-categories><subj-group subj-group-type="heading"><subject>Research</subject></subj-group></article-categories><title-group><article-title>A metric to measure long-term well-being of people living with HIV in Spain</article-title></title-group><contrib-group><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Fuster-RuizdeApodaca</surname><given-names>Mar&#x000ed;a Jos&#x000e9;</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>White</surname><given-names>Trenton M.</given-names></name><address><email>Trenton.white@isglobal.org</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff4">4</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Prats-Silvestre</surname><given-names>Carlos</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Holgado-Tello</surname><given-names>Francisco P.</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Lazarus</surname><given-names>Jeffrey V.</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff4">4</xref></contrib><aff id="Aff1"><label>1</label>The Spanish Interdisciplinary AIDS Society (SEISIDA), Madrid, Spain </aff><aff id="Aff2"><label>2</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/02msb5n36</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.10702.34</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 2308 8920</institution-id><institution>Faculty of Psychology, </institution><institution>Universidad Nacional de Educaci&#x000f3;n a Distancia (UNED), </institution></institution-wrap>Madrid, Spain </aff><aff id="Aff3"><label>3</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/03hjgt059</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.434607.2</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 1763 3517</institution-id><institution>Barcelona Institute for Global Health (ISGlobal), </institution></institution-wrap>Barcelona, Spain </aff><aff id="Aff4"><label>4</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/00453a208</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.212340.6</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 2298 5718</institution-id><institution>The City University of New York Graduate School of Public Health and Policy (CUNY SPH), </institution></institution-wrap>New York City, USA </aff></contrib-group><pub-date pub-type="epub"><day>5</day><month>8</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="pmc-release"><day>5</day><month>8</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="collection"><year>2025</year></pub-date><volume>23</volume><elocation-id>460</elocation-id><history><date date-type="received"><day>19</day><month>12</month><year>2024</year></date><date date-type="accepted"><day>25</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></date></history><permissions><copyright-statement>&#x000a9; The Author(s) 2025</copyright-statement><copyright-year>2025</copyright-year><license><ali:license_ref specific-use="textmining" content-type="ccbyncndlicense">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ali:license_ref><license-p><bold>Open Access</bold> This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed material. You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/">http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ext-link>.</license-p></license></permissions><abstract id="Abs1"><sec><title>Background</title><p id="Par1">Achieving long-term well-being for people living with HIV (PLHIV) requires moving beyond viral suppression to address health-related quality of life (HRQoL), encompassing physical, mental, and social dimensions. This study aimed to develop a composite metric to monitor and improve the long-term well-being of PLHIV in Spain.</p></sec><sec><title>Methods</title><p id="Par2">This study employs a Delphi consensus process with composite score analysis of cross-sectional survey data from 500 PLHIV in Spain. The Delphi method was employed to engage 43 experts to identify and prioritize indicators for three domains: comorbidity, discrimination, and quality of life. Data from validated instruments, including the Charlson Comorbidity Index and the WHOQOL-HIV-BREF tool, were used to construct a composite well-being score. Scores for each domain were weighted and standardized to create the long-term well-being index.</p></sec><sec><title>Results</title><p id="Par3">The composite metric revealed that most participants had moderate well-being, with 70% scoring medium for comorbidities and 66% experiencing medium to high discrimination. About 15% reported poor quality of life, and nine participants exhibited the worst possible scores across all domains. The metric demonstrated the interrelated impact of comorbidity, discrimination, and quality of life on overall well-being.</p></sec><sec><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par4">This study introduces a long-term well-being composite metric that integrates comorbidity, discrimination, and HRQoL as critical domains for monitoring and improving the health of PLHIV. The metric provides a holistic, patient-centered framework to guide interventions and policy, supporting better outcomes for PLHIV in Spain and beyond.</p></sec><sec><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12916-025-04300-x.</p></sec></abstract><kwd-group xml:lang="en"><title>Keywords</title><kwd>Quality of life</kwd><kwd>Patient-centered</kwd><kwd>HIV/AIDS</kwd><kwd>Geriatric medicine</kwd><kwd>Long-term well-being</kwd><kwd>Chronic care</kwd></kwd-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="FundRef">https://doi.org/10.13039/501100004587</institution-id><institution>Instituto de Salud Carlos III</institution></institution-wrap></funding-source><award-id>PI20/01654</award-id></award-group></funding-group><custom-meta-group><custom-meta><meta-name>issue-copyright-statement</meta-name><meta-value>&#x000a9; BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2025</meta-value></custom-meta></custom-meta-group></article-meta></front><body><sec id="Sec1"><title>Background</title><p id="Par21">People living with HIV (PLHIV) are at a higher risk for a wide range of comorbidities compared to the general population [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>]. Even in settings with good access to antiretroviral therapy (ART), PLHIV have a higher incidence of multiple health conditions, or multimorbidity, particularly non-communicable diseases [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>]. Findings from a large 2019 cohort study revealed that PLHIV have a significantly increased risk of cardiovascular disease, chronic kidney disease, and osteoporotic fractures [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>]. Among PLHIV in Europe, common non-AIDS-related causes of hospitalization include respiratory disease, psychiatric disorders, cardiovascular disease, renal disorders, and liver disease [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>]. Experiencing the burdensome symptoms of multimorbidity may also negatively impact retention in care and adherence to ART, which could lead to poorer individual health outcomes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>].</p><p id="Par22">Gender differences play a critical role in shaping the co-morbidities experienced by PLHIV. For example, women living with HIV in Spain report a disproportionate burden compared to men with HIV in physical, psychological, and environmental health-related quality of life (HRQoL) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>]. Women living with HIV are also at higher risk for renal failure and osteoporosis as they age compared to their male counterparts [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>]. These disparities underscore the need for gender-responsive care models that address the specific biological and social determinants of the health and well-being of PLHIV.
</p><p id="Par23">Although PLHIV with multimorbidity report experiencing a lower quality of life, national health systems are not always fully prepared to address their needs in a way that considers their HRQoL [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>]. Despite the growing body of HRQoL evidence, few HIV surveillance systems collect data on long-term well-being among this population [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>].</p><p id="Par24">Since they were launched in 2014, the ambitious UNAIDS &#x0201c;90-90-90&#x0201d; targets, aimed at diagnosing, treating, and achieving viral suppression in PLHIV, have directed much of the public health research toward these goals. Yet, this strategy underscores that achieving viral suppression alone is not sufficient; ensuring that PLHIV can live healthy, dignified lives is equally important [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>]. The World Health Organization (WHO) similarly emphasizes the importance of quality of life (QoL) for PLHIV as a key component of comprehensive HIV care in its &#x0201c;Global health sector strategies on, respectively, HIV, viral hepatitis and sexually transmitted infections for the period 2022&#x02013;2030&#x0201d; [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>]. HRQoL in this context encompasses physical health, psychological state, level of independence, social relationships, personal beliefs, and their relationship to salient features of the environment. WHO advocates for a people-centered resolution that integrates healthcare services with other sectors to address the full range of health needs of PLHIV [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>]. This perspective promotes a holistic approach to HIV care, addressing the social determinants of health, reducing stigma and discrimination, and providing support for mental health and social well-being, ultimately aiming to improve the overall QoL for PLHIV [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>].</p><p id="Par25">A 2021 consensus statement from HIV experts around the world advocating for integrated, person-centered healthcare systems to advance the long-term well-being of PLHIV, emphasizing the importance of addressing multimorbidity, HRQoL, and the reduction of stigma and discrimination (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>). This study proposes an approach to developing a national long-term well-being surveillance metric for PLHIV in Spain, formerly termed the &#x0201c;Fourth 90&#x0201d; [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>], by investigating comorbidities, stigma and discrimination, and HRQoL through a Delphi process and real-world survey data.<fig id="Fig1"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;1</label><caption><p>Components of a long-term well-being metric for people living with HIV. Note: Author&#x02019;s adaptation from Safreed-Harmon K. et al. (2019) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>] and Lazarus et al. (2021) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>]</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4300_Fig1_HTML" id="MO1"/></fig></p></sec><sec id="Sec2"><title>Methods</title><sec id="Sec3"><title>Study design</title><p id="Par26">This study employs a Delphi consensus process and composite indicator analysis of cross-sectional survey data from participants living with HIV to design a long-term well-being score. The Delphi consensus process was used to define the domains and critical indicators of the score. The Delphi method is a structured consensus technique that involves multiple rounds of anonymous questionnaires, allowing experts to revise their opinions based on controlled feedback from the group [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>]. This approach minimizes the influence of dominant individuals and supports convergence toward agreement, particularly in areas with limited empirical evidence.</p></sec><sec id="Sec4"><title>Delphi panel participants</title><p id="Par27">For the Delphi panels, experts were invited to participate from a Spanish Interdisciplinary AIDS Society (SEISIDA) database of HIV researchers in Spain based on their experience in HIV care management, discrimination issues, their academic research focus in one or both of these areas, and a status of currently working in Spain. Only those meeting these criteria with at least 3&#x000a0;years of relevant experience were invited. Ninety-four people were invited,<italic> n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;43 agreed to participate and completed the first round (R1), and <italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;40 (93% response rate) completed the second round (R2). Among the <italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;43 participants, 58% (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;25) were female, 40% (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;17) were male, and 2% identified as another gender (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;1). Geographically, the panelists were distributed across eight of the 17 autonomous communities: 23% (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;10) from Catalonia, 23% from Madrid (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;10), 19% from Andalusia (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;8), 12% (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;5) from Galicia, 9% (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;4) from the Basque Country, 7% (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;3) from Valencia, 5% from Aragon (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;2), and 2% (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;1) from Navarra. Participants were asked to indicate their &#x0201c;primary&#x0201d; professional profile: 26% (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;11) of the panelists were physicians, 21% (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;9) from community organizations or NGOs, 12% were nurses (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;5), 9% (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;4) worked in public health, 9% were pharmacists (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;4), 7% were psychologists or psychiatrists (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;3), and 5% were HIV academic researchers (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;2). The panelists had a substantial amount of experience in HIV research or clinical practice, with an average of 17&#x000a0;years (SD&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8) and a median of 16&#x000a0;years. HIV serostatus was not recorded.</p></sec><sec id="Sec5"><title>Survey participants living with HIV</title><p id="Par28">In this study, the People Living with HIV Stigma Index 2.0 was administered to 500 people living with HIV. Since the index had not previously been adapted for the Spanish population, and in accordance with GIPA principles, a committee of community experts living with HIV participated in its adaptation. They reviewed the translation of the items to ensure both content and face validity for Spaniards living with HIV. Members of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) collaborated in recruiting study participants. Specifically, the sample was recruited in a coordinated manner from 12 NGOs focused on HIV well-being and 18 hospitals across Spain. While some of the NGOs specifically serve vulnerable populations, such as migrants, transgender individuals, and people who use drugs, detailed information about participants&#x02019; inclusion in key populations such as sex workers, drug users, or young people was not systematically collected. As a result, we are unable to assess the representativeness of these groups within the final analytic sample. The identity of the participants was pseudonymized.</p><p id="Par29">The researchers responsible for data collection received the information and merged the comorbidity data with the self-reported data through the pseudonymized code of each participant. The final sample of the study comprised 119 female (23.8%), 369 male (73.8%), and 7 (1.4%) other (i.e., non-binary, gender fluid). A total of 16 (3.2%) participants stated they were trans. Participants were between the ages of 18 and 75&#x000a0;years (M&#x02009;=&#x02009;45.75; SD&#x02009;=&#x02009;12.26). Regarding nationality, most were Spanish (355; 71%) and 26.2% were from non-European Union countries. Regarding socioeconomic status, 10.2% of the participants did not have any monthly income, and 79.3% of the participants had a monthly income lower than 1,200. The sample was selected from 18 hospitals in eight regions of Spain (Andalusia; Balearic Islands; Catalonia; Galicia; La Rioja; Madrid; Basque Country; Valencia) using non-random and convenience sampling. Even though the sampling was convenience sampling, based on the availability of people, according to the epidemiological surveillance estimation [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>]. In 2023 in Spain, there are between 132,000 and 162,000 people living with HIV. Using the sample size formula for a finite population, given the prevalence of this type of disease (0.077%) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>], with a confidence level of 95% and a precision of 0.05, the estimated <italic>n</italic> to be obtained would be 171 participants. This sample estimate would guarantee a sufficient size to be able to generalize results to the population with the indicated error.</p></sec><sec id="Sec6"><title>Instruments</title><p id="Par30">Delphi panelists were presented a questionnaire containing (Additional File 1) the Charlson Comorbidity Index [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>], 13 items on experienced stigma from the People Living with HIV Stigma Index 2.0 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>], and the general dimension of the WHOQOL tool [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>]. The Charlson Comorbidity Index includes 19 comorbid conditions, each assigned a specific weight based on its association with mortality risk. The total score reflects the overall comorbidity burden and can be used to predict long-term outcomes such as mortality. The general dimension of the WHOQOL assesses an individual's overall quality of life and general health, offering a broad evaluation of their well-being across various life domains. The two items that make up the general dimension of the WHOQOL formed the QOL domain.</p></sec><sec id="Sec7"><title>Delphi data collection</title><p id="Par31">The Delphi process sought to achieve consensus among the panelists on indicators to include in a long-term well-being metric. This process included two successive survey rounds to refine and agree on the item selection for two domains: (1) comorbidity, and (2) stigma and discrimination [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR21">21</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR22">22</xref>].</p><p id="Par32">In the first Delphi round, panelists were presented the Charlson Comorbidity Index [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>] as well as anxiety and depression as potential items for the comorbidity domain. The People Living with HIV Stigma Index 2.0 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>] formed the first set of items for the stigma and discrimination domain. Panelists were asked to indicate their level of agreement (i.e., strongly disagree, disagree, agree, strongly agree) with each item&#x02019;s inclusion in a long-term well-being metric and written feedback for each item. Panelist feedback in the first round resulted in the modification of the 15 comorbidity items to six comorbidity groups and a reduction of the stigma and discrimination items from 13 to eight. In round two, panelists were presented the frequencies of group agreement in round one items and, in addition to re-assessing agreement, were asked to rank order the items in each domain.</p></sec><sec id="Sec8"><title>Survey data collection</title><p id="Par33">The data collected from PLHIV related to discrimination and HRQoL are part of a broader study carried out by the Spanish federation of HIV NGOs (CESIDA) and the Spanish AIDS Interdisciplinary Society (SEISIDA) to collect the HIV Stigma Index 2.0. These data have been provided by the entities responsible for the study. The self-reported data was collected through an online questionnaire designed with Qualtrics software and supported by tablets. Comorbidity data were collected by healthcare professionals at the hospitals where the participants had their health follow-up using the Charlson Comorbidity Index.</p></sec><sec id="Sec9"><title>Data analysis</title><p id="Par34">Data from the Delphi process were analyzed using descriptive statistics between successive rounds and reported by combined agreement (i.e., agree and strongly agree). The Borda count method was used to analyze the ranking results. This method involves assigning points to each ranked position for every item [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>]. Specifically, for an item ranked in the <italic>i</italic>th position out of <italic>n</italic> total items, it receives <italic>n</italic>&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;<italic>i</italic> points. Therefore, an item ranked first receives the highest points, while an item ranked last receives the fewest points. The points for each item were summed across all participants. To facilitate comparison and interpretation, the Borda count results were normalized as percentages. The normalization was performed whereby the total Borda points for each item within each domain (i.e., comorbidity and stigma and discrimination) was divided by the maximum possible points within the domain and multiplied by 100, resulting in a percentage that reflected its relative importance as perceived by the Delphi panelists.</p><p id="Par35">Following the second round of the Delphi process, we analyzed the predictive capacity of the six comorbidity indicators on quality of life, measured with WHOQOL-HIV-BREF, using logistic regression. For this purpose, the HRQoL responses were dichotomized into &#x0201c;high&#x0201d; and &#x0201c;low,&#x0201d; according to the available benchmarks in the validation of the WHOQOL-HIV-BREF in Spain [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>]. An Exploratory Factor Analysis (EFA) of the eight discrimination items was conducted to check their dimensionality. Data for the selected items were populated with data from PLHIV participants: current diagnosis of any of the selected comorbidity domain indicators and patient-reported items from discrimination and HRQoL domain indicators. Linear regressions were performed with the domains as independent variables against the dependent HRQoL variable.</p></sec><sec id="Sec10"><title>Long-term well-being score construction</title><p id="Par36">To calculate the comorbidity dimension score, we assigned weighted values to each item using linear regression analysis. The three comorbidity items were the predictors, and the total sum of the WHOQOL dimensions (excluding the general dimension) was the dependent variable. Results were reviewed for each dimension individually and determined the following weights based on standardized coefficients: mental health (0.657), cancer (0.229), and cardiovascular disease (0.114). The comorbidity dimension score was then calculated by summing the three weighted items. To compute the discrimination dimension score, we summed the responses from the five discrimination items, yielding a range of 1 to 14 points. For the HRQoL dimension score, we inverted the two items so that higher scores indicated poorer quality of life, aligning with the direction of the other dimensions&#x02019; scores. Finally, <italic>Z</italic>-scores for the three dimensions were calculated and converted to McCall&#x02019;s <italic>T</italic>-scores (10*<italic>z</italic>&#x02009;+&#x02009;50) for easier interpretation and comparison across dimensions.</p><p id="Par37">To provide a comprehensive description of each participant&#x02019;s well-being, a global score was calculated by combining the three facets assessed (comorbidity, discrimination, HRQoL). This approach aligns with the concept of synthetic validity, which integrates multiple dimensions into a composite score under a unified construct validity framework [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>]. Rather than relying on a single overall measure, the global status is assessed across these three facets that, necessarily, should be considered in its interpretation.</p><p id="Par38">To create the status score, <italic>T</italic>-scores were categorized into three levels: <italic>low</italic> (coded as 0; combining very low and low scores); <italic>medium</italic> (coded as 1; combining medium-low to medium-high scores); and <italic>high</italic> (coded as 2; combining high to very high scores). Each participant&#x02019;s well-being status was then determined by calculating the mean and standard deviation of the collapsed scores across the three facets (comorbidity, quality of life, and discrimination). This approach provides a nuanced measure of well-being that reflects contributions from all dimensions.</p><p id="Par39">In this collapsed scale, the well-being status for each participant is calculated as the mean of the collapsed scores across the three facets (comorbidity, quality of life, and discrimination), along with its standard deviation. The following interpretation ranges are applied to the mean score: low: 0 to 0.33; medium: 0.34 to 1.0; high: 1.1 to 2.0. For example, if a participant has the following scores: comorbidity&#x02009;=&#x02009;1, quality of life&#x02009;=&#x02009;1, and discrimination&#x02009;=&#x02009;2 (1, 1, 2), their global status score is calculated as the mean of these values, 1.33 (mean&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.33, SD&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.47). According to the interpretation norms, this is a high-status score, reflecting significant challenges, primarily due to discrimination. There are 27 possible combinations (3<sup>3</sup>) of scores across the three domains. The optimal well-being status is represented by the lowest scores in all dimensions (comorbidity&#x02009;=&#x02009;0, quality of life&#x02009;=&#x02009;0, and discrimination&#x02009;=&#x02009;0, or 0, 0, 0), while the worst status is represented by the highest scores in all dimensions (2, 2, 2). Importantly, the global status score should always be interpreted alongside the individual scores for each domain to fully understand the participant&#x02019;s well-being profile.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec11"><title>Results</title><sec id="Sec12"><title>Delphi comorbidity domain construction</title><p id="Par40">In the comorbidity Delphi, cardiovascular diseases (e.g., hypertension, heart attack, peripheral artery disease) were rated the highest with 98% agreement and a normalized score of 83%. Mental health disorders (e.g., depression, anxiety, substance abuse) achieved 100% agreement and a score of 79%. Cancer (any type) held a strong agreement at 98% with a score of 67%. Metabolic diseases (e.g., diabetes mellitus) improved in consensus to 92% with a score of 48%. Chronic kidney disease had an 87% agreement and a score of 39%, while pulmonary diseases (e.g., COPD) had a 76% agreement and a score of 34% (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref>).
<table-wrap id="Tab1"><label>Table 1</label><caption><p>Comorbidity Delphi results</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left">Round 1 comorbidity items</th><th align="left">Agreement R1</th><th align="left">Round 2 comorbidity groups</th><th align="left">Agreement R2</th><th align="left">Rank (normalized score)</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">Cardiovascular disease</td><td align="left">95%</td><td align="left">Cardiovascular diseases (e.g., hypertension, heart attack, peripheral artery disease)</td><td align="left">98%</td><td align="left">1 (83%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Cerebrovascular disease</td><td align="left">84%</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Depression</td><td align="left">97%</td><td align="left">Mental health disorders (e.g., depression, anxiety, substance abuse)</td><td align="left">100%</td><td align="left">2 (79%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Anxiety</td><td align="left">95%</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Substance use disorder</td><td align="left">97%</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Hypertension</td><td align="left">87%</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Cognitive disorder (any type)</td><td align="left">92%</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Cancer (any type)</td><td align="left">97%</td><td align="left">Cancer (any type)</td><td align="left">98%</td><td align="left">3 (67%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Diabetes mellitus</td><td align="left">74%</td><td align="left">Metabolic diseases (e.g., diabetes mellitus)</td><td align="left">92%</td><td align="left">4 (48%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Dyslipidemia</td><td align="left">87%</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Chronic kidney disease</td><td align="left">79%</td><td align="left">Chronic kidney disease</td><td align="left">87%</td><td align="left">5 (39%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Co-infection with Hepatitis B</td><td align="left">66%</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Co-infection with Hepatitis C</td><td align="left">84%</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)</td><td align="left">79%</td><td align="left">Pulmonary diseases (e.g., COPD)</td><td align="left">76%</td><td align="left">6 (34%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Osteoporosis</td><td align="left">76%</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr></tbody></table></table-wrap></p><p id="Par41">After considering the agreement of the Delphi results and analyzing the predictive capacity of the six comorbidity indicators with HRQoL (Additional File 2: Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref>), the following three items were selected for inclusion in the comorbidity domain: cancer, mental health, cardiovascular disease.</p></sec><sec id="Sec13"><title>Delphi discrimination domain construction</title><p id="Par42">In the discrimination Delphi, verbal aggression and denial of services due to HIV status were rated highest with 90% agreement and a score of 78%. Physical aggression saw increased agreement to 87% with a score of 74%. Employment discrimination achieved perfect consensus at 100% with a score of 65%. Discriminatory comments from family members had 82% agreement and a score of 52%. Rejection by a sexual partner due to HIV status had 87% agreement and a score of 50%. Educational discrimination showed 88% agreement with a score of 46%, and exclusion from social gatherings had 64% agreement with a score of 32%.</p><p id="Par43">The EFA found two factors (<italic>&#x003c7;</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;=&#x02009;321(53), <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001, SRMR&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.051). The first factor was made up of six items that reflected exclusion or victimization from a close environment (e.g., family or health care). The second factor was composed of six items and reflected situations of discrimination of high vulnerability due to the source of origin or the intensity of the different treatment. A total of eight of the 13 discrimination items were selected for the second Delphi round, four from each factor. The selection was made according to their predictive ability of the dichotomized dimensions of HRQoL, the relevance given by the first round of the Delphi, and the prevalence of the item in the sample. Finally, after the second Delphi round, five items were selected for inclusion in the discrimination domain (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref>).
<table-wrap id="Tab2"><label>Table 2</label><caption><p>Discrimination Delphi results</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left">Discrimination Delphi items</th><th align="left">Combined agreement R1</th><th align="left">Combined agreement R2</th><th align="left">Rank (normalized Borda score)</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">1. The person with HIV being a victim of verbal aggression (e.g., shouting, insults, reproaches) because of having HIV<sup>2</sup></td><td align="left">90%</td><td align="left">90%</td><td align="left">1 (78%)*</td></tr><tr><td align="left">2. The person with HIV being denied or treated differently in social services and/or healthcare services because of having HIV<sup>1</sup></td><td align="left">90%</td><td align="left">89%</td><td align="left">1 (78%)*</td></tr><tr><td align="left">3. The person with HIV being a victim of physical aggression (e.g., shoves, hits, physical abuse) because of having HIV</td><td align="left">79%</td><td align="left">87%</td><td align="left">2 (74%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">4. The person with HIV being denied a job or losing a source of income or employment because of having HIV<sup>2</sup></td><td align="left">98%</td><td align="left">100%</td><td align="left">3 (65%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">5. Family members making discriminatory comments, criticisms, or gossip because the person has HIV<sup>1</sup></td><td align="left">95%</td><td align="left">82%</td><td align="left">4 (52%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">6. The person with HIV being rejected by a sexual partner because of having HIV<sup>2</sup></td><td align="left">98%</td><td align="left">87%</td><td align="left">5 (50%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">7. The person with HIV being treated differently in educational settings, being rejected, or losing some educational opportunity because of having HIV</td><td align="left">86%</td><td align="left">88%</td><td align="left">6 (46%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">8. Exclusion from social gatherings or activities (e.g., weddings, funerals, parties, clubs) because of being a person with HIV</td><td align="left">71%</td><td align="left">64%</td><td align="left">7 (32%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">9. Exclusion from religious activities or places of worship because of being a person with HIV</td><td align="left">50%</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">10. Exclusion from family activities because of being a person with HIV</td><td align="left">90%</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">11. The person with HIV being a victim of blackmail because of having HIV</td><td align="left">81%</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">12. The person with HIV experiencing that their partner or someone close faces some form of discrimination because they have HIV</td><td align="left">98%</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">13. The person with HIV having their job functions changed or being denied a promotion because of having HIV</td><td align="left">88%</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>Legend: Round 1 (R1), Round 2 (R2)</p><p>*indicates equal ranking</p><p><sup>1</sup>Discrimination items from Factor 1 included in the discrimination domain of the composite score</p><p>&#x000a0;<sup>2</sup>Discrimination items from Factor 2 included in the discrimination domain of the composite score</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p></sec><sec id="Sec14"><title>Long-term well-being score</title><p id="Par44">Based on the descriptive results across the three domains and using T-scores as the normative reference, it was observed that in the comorbidity dimension, slightly more than 70% of the sample had a score in the medium interpretation range (46&#x02013;56), while 25% had high comorbidity scores. Discrimination is a prevalent issue, as about 66% of the sample had a medium&#x02013;high level of experience of discrimination, while 15% were already at high to very high discrimination scores. Finally, in quality of life, slightly more than 30% had poor perceived quality of life as they were in ranges above the middle <italic>T</italic>-score of the scale (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab3" ref-type="table">3</xref>).
<table-wrap id="Tab3"><label>Table 3</label><caption><p>Long-term well-being index dimensions scores (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;500)</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left">Dimension</th><th align="left" colspan="2">Minimum</th><th align="left" colspan="2">Maximum</th></tr><tr><th align="left"/><th align="left"><italic>Z</italic></th><th align="left"><italic>T</italic> McCall</th><th align="left"><italic>Z</italic></th><th align="left"><italic>T</italic> McCall</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">Comorbidity</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;0.62</td><td char="." align="char">43.84</td><td char="." align="char">3.04</td><td char="." align="char">80.39</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Discrimination</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;2.33</td><td char="." align="char">26.74</td><td char="." align="char">4.47</td><td char="." align="char">94.75</td></tr><tr><td align="left">General HRQoL</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;1.50</td><td char="." align="char">34.97</td><td char="." align="char">2.92</td><td char="." align="char">79.21</td></tr></tbody></table></table-wrap></p><p id="Par45">The comorbidity domain was negatively related to all dimensions of quality of life, although with a moderate effect size (Additional File 2: Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref>). The same occurred with discrimination, although this variable showed smaller association sizes and was not associated with the spiritual dimension of HRQoL. Health status and generally perceived quality of life have negative associations with all specific dimensions, with a high or medium&#x02013;high association. Comorbidity demonstrated in some dimensions only marginal significance, and discrimination did not predict the psychological or spiritual dimensions. The spiritual dimension was not predicted by any of the other dimensions.</p><p id="Par46">The global status represents a composite measure of participants&#x02019; well-being. Table <xref rid="Tab4" ref-type="table">4</xref> presents the frequency distribution and basic descriptive statistics for the global well-being status score and its components. In this sample, the most common category across the three domains is medium (&#x0201c;1&#x0201d;), indicating that most participants are in an average situation. This suggests a medium&#x02013;low to medium&#x02013;high level of challenges in at least some of the dimensions, leaving room for improvement to achieve optimal long-term well-being.
<table-wrap id="Tab4"><label>Table 4</label><caption><p>Frequency and basic descriptive of the global well-being status score and its components</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left" rowspan="2"/><th align="left" colspan="2">Frequency</th><th align="left" rowspan="2"><italic>N</italic></th><th align="left" rowspan="2">Min</th><th align="left" rowspan="2">Max</th><th align="left" rowspan="2">Average</th><th align="left" rowspan="2">Standard deviation</th></tr><tr><th align="left">Category</th><th align="left"><italic>n</italic></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left" rowspan="3">Comorbidity Score Index</td><td align="left">0</td><td align="left">0</td><td align="left" rowspan="3">485</td><td align="left" rowspan="3">1</td><td align="left" rowspan="3">2</td><td align="left" rowspan="3">1.23</td><td align="left" rowspan="3">0.42</td></tr><tr><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">372</td></tr><tr><td align="left">2</td><td align="left">113</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="3">Discrimination Score Index</td><td align="left">0</td><td align="left">42</td><td align="left" rowspan="3">486</td><td align="left" rowspan="3">0</td><td align="left" rowspan="3">2</td><td align="left" rowspan="3">1.07</td><td align="left" rowspan="3">0.49</td></tr><tr><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">369</td></tr><tr><td align="left">2</td><td align="left">75</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="3">Quality of Life Score Index</td><td align="left">0</td><td align="left">59</td><td align="left" rowspan="3">435</td><td align="left" rowspan="3">0</td><td align="left" rowspan="3">2</td><td align="left" rowspan="3">1.04</td><td align="left" rowspan="3">0.56</td></tr><tr><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">296</td></tr><tr><td align="left">2</td><td align="left">78</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="3">Global Well-being Status Score</td><td align="left">0</td><td align="left">5</td><td align="left" rowspan="3">411</td><td align="left" rowspan="3">0</td><td align="left" rowspan="3">2</td><td align="left" rowspan="3">1.37</td><td align="left" rowspan="3">0.51</td></tr><tr><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">251</td></tr><tr><td align="left">2</td><td align="left">155</td></tr></tbody></table></table-wrap></p><p id="Par47">Notably, no participant was categorized as &#x0201c;0&#x0201d; in the comorbidity domain. Regarding the discrimination domain, 75 of 486 participants (15%) score high (&#x0201c;2&#x0201d;), indicating a substantial experience of stigma. Similarly, in the quality of life domain, 78 of 435 participants (18%) score high, reflecting poor quality of life.</p><p id="Par48">Nine participants displayed the worst response pattern (2,2,2), indicating severe challenges across all three domains. These participants are characterized by suffering from a high degree of comorbidity, experiencing high stigma, and having a poor perception of quality of life, placing them among the most vulnerable in terms of well-being.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec15"><title>Discussion</title><p id="Par49">This study is the first approximation of a metric to monitor the long-term health of PLHIV in Spain. Most survey respondents in this study were found to have a moderate level of well-being, with significant challenges identified in specific areas such as comorbidities, stigma, and quality of life. This finding underscores the growing recognition in HIV care that health-related quality of life (HRQoL) must be prioritized alongside viral suppression as part of efforts to measure and address long-term well-being [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>].</p><p id="Par50">The metric presented here was developed for surveillance purposes&#x02014;to monitor trends in long-term well-being across the population of PLHIV in Spain. While the selected domains (comorbidity, discrimination, and quality of life) are critical at the population level, they were not designed for routine clinical care. Clinical integration would require simplified tools, validated cut-offs, and workflows compatible with patient management. For example, improving HRQoL encompasses addressing mental health, social integration, and overall well-being, and incorporating HRQoL monitoring into routine HIV care ensures holistic, person-centered care, addressing factors that undermine quality of life, such as stigma, discrimination, and social isolation. Effective screening tools and validated psychometric instruments are crucial for assessing and improving HRQoL [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR26">26</xref>]. To this end, clear and standardized definitions of HRQoL are essential for guiding care practices and policies. Health systems must reorient to provide comprehensive care that supports the long-term well-being of PLHIV, ensuring that success in HIV treatment is measured not only by current biomarker clinical outcomes but also by comorbidity clinical outcomes and the quality of life of the individuals [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>]. The shift towards a more holistic approach in HIV care increasingly recognizes quality of life as a crucial outcome alongside traditional clinical metrics [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR27">27</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR28">28</xref>].</p><p id="Par51">Notably, scores indicate that all participants suffer from at least some of the comorbidities included in the index, including mental health disorders, cardiovascular diseases, and cancers, which were proposed as key dimensions by Delphi expert participants. Mental health challenges, including depression and anxiety, are prevalent among PLHIV, with studies reporting rates as high as 26.7% in some regions, significantly affecting quality of life and treatment adherence&#x0200b; [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR29">29</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>]. Cardiovascular diseases also pose a considerable burden, affecting 4.7% of a large cohort of PLHIV in Spain, with hypertension greater than 25% [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR31">31</xref>]. Furthermore, cancers remain a critical concern, particularly non-AIDS-defining cancers, which show increased prevalence among PLHIV in Spain [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR32">32</xref>]. General practitioners may face challenges in managing multimorbidity due to organizational fragmentation and a lack of clarity in care coordination [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR33">33</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR34">34</xref>]. This may lead to suboptimal follow-up and inadequate management of multiple comorbidities [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR35">35</xref>]. Multimorbidity may be higher among older age groups and men in Europe [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR36">36</xref>]. In Spain, PLHIV commonly face comorbidities such as cardiovascular disease, renal disease, bone disorders, liver cirrhosis, and diabetes, with major risk factors for these comorbidities including smoking, dyslipidemia, hypertension, and obesity [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR31">31</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR37">37</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR39">39</xref>]. Testing for infectious diseases such as tuberculosis, hepatitis B and C, and sexually transmitted infections (STI), as well as screening for chronic conditions such as cardiovascular, metabolic, and kidney diseases, is recommended among PLHIV-specific clinical guidelines in Spain [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR40">40</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR43">43</xref>]. While the health system monitors and reports incidence of tuberculosis, hepatitis B and C, and STIs among PLHIV, this systemic monitoring does not occur for chronic comorbidities, an important lack of information among populations aging with HIV [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR44">44</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR45">45</xref>].</p><p id="Par52">Concerning discrimination, the present study identified key manifestations such as verbal aggression, discriminatory comments, differential treatment in healthcare settings, job loss, and rejection by a sexual partner as critical components of the well-being index. These forms of discrimination have a profound impact on quality of life by contributing to mental distress, social isolation, and reduced access to care. Findings from Spain reinforce these results, highlighting that stigma and discrimination remain pervasive issues for PLHIV in Spain, affecting multiple facets of life, with rejection by sexual partners and discriminatory treatment in healthcare settings being particularly burdensome [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR46">46</xref>]. Additionally, institutional discrimination, such as barriers to accessing healthcare services, exacerbates these challenges, particularly for vulnerable populations such as migrants [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR47">47</xref>]. This underscores the urgent need to address these social determinants in efforts to improve the long-term well-being of PLHIV.</p><p id="Par53">This study estimates that about 15% of people experience high levels of discrimination, with almost two-thirds experiencing medium or medium&#x02013;high levels of discrimination. These data, therefore, jeopardize the achievement of the UNAIDS 2025 target that less than 10% of people living with HIV should be discriminated against [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR48">48</xref>]. HIV-related stigma is widely understood as a multidimensional construct encompassing experienced (or enacted stigma, measured in this study), internalized (or self-stigma, in which a person living with HIV internalizes societal prejudices and negative beliefs about HIV), and anticipated stigma (an individual&#x02019;s expectation of facing negative reactions, discrimination, or social judgment due to their HIV status) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR49">49</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR51">51</xref>]. Stigma and discrimination can result in avoidance of health services in some or medication nonadherence, which in turn can lead to failure to achieve viral suppression or other dimensioned health and well-being outcomes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR52">52</xref>]. Adverse events such as rejection, bullying, and institutional discrimination degrade mental health and quality of life [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR52">52</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR54">54</xref>]. HIV stigma and discrimination impact healthcare access and outcomes for migrants living with HIV in Spain, including higher rates of late presentation and late HIV diagnosis [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR55">55</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR56">56</xref>]. Migrants living with HIV report numerous barriers to healthcare access, including lengthy waiting times, language barriers, lack of health cards, and self-stigma and emotional distress as a result of navigating a health system with irregular immigration status [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR57">57</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR58">58</xref>]. Addressing these challenges requires comprehensive strategies including healthcare provider training, public health education, and human rights approaches [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>]. Effective interventions to mitigate HIV stigma involve combining information-based strategies, skills building, counseling and support, and structural changes, which have been shown to reduce stigma through improved knowledge, attitudes, and behaviors [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR59">59</xref>].</p><p id="Par54">In this study, similar proportions reported low and high QoL experience, though both fewer than one-fifth of respondents. Social support influences QoL by providing emotional, informational, and practical assistance that helps mitigate challenges faced by PLHIV. Emotional support from family, friends, and support groups helps PLHIV cope with psychological stress, reducing feelings of loneliness, anxiety, and depression, and thus improving mental health and overall well-being [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>]. Informational support from social networks provides valuable knowledge about HIV, treatment options, and coping strategies, empowering PLHIV to make informed health decisions, potentially reducing uncertainty and promoting a sense of control over their status [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR60">60</xref>]. Practical assistance, such as help with daily activities, can improve adherence to ART, leading to improved health maintenance, better clinical outcomes, and greater QoL [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>]. Efforts to reduce HIV-related stigma in healthcare settings are crucial. In healthcare settings, training healthcare providers to be more sensitive and knowledgeable about HIV can significantly improve the quality of care for PLHIV [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR27">27</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR61">61</xref>]. Strategies such as integrating mental health services to address self-stigma and depression, and implementing public health campaigns to educate the community about HIV, are essential [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR27">27</xref>]. Moreover, support from the community and peer groups helps mitigate stigma and discrimination, fostering a sense of acceptance and enhancing self-esteem and social integration [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR62">62</xref>]. Additionally, social support provides a platform for sharing experiences and coping strategies, which strengthens individual coping mechanisms and helps PLHIV navigate the complexities of their condition [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR27">27</xref>]. Positive reinforcement and encouragement from social networks promote healthier behaviors, such as regular exercise, proper nutrition, and avoidance of risky behaviors, contributing to better physical health and QoL [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>].</p><p id="Par55">This study has limitations that warrant caution in the interpretation of the results. The approach assumes that global well-being status is not uniform, as individuals may reach similar scores through different combinations of the three dimensions&#x02014;comorbidity, quality of life, and discrimination. Interpretation relies on a conjunctive model, where well-being is considered good if all dimensions meet the low threshold, moderate if scores fall in the medium range or mix low and medium thresholds, and poor if any dimension scores high. This method highlights the multidimensional nature of well-being but introduces complexity that may limit its generalizability. Another limitation of the Delphi method is its dependence on the perspectives and expertise of the panel, whose proportion of participants living with HIV is unknown, which may have led to the exclusion of certain relevant dimensions or manifestations of discrimination and comorbidities that are less well-recognized. This could limit the comprehensiveness of the index and its applicability to diverse populations, particularly those whose experiences may not align with the consensus reached by the panel. However, there was a wide participation of people with HIV in the survey study conducted to collect the HIV Stigma Index. They were involved in several steps and actions of the research ensuring that most of the GIPA principles were adopted. Another limitation concerns the limited representation of certain key populations within the survey sample. Although recruitment was conducted through community organizations serving diverse PLHIV, the study did not systematically collect data on participants&#x02019; engagement in sex work, substance use, or other social determinants such as housing status. Young people were also underrepresented. These gaps limit the ability to assess the applicability of the metric to groups that often experience disproportionate stigma and structural vulnerability. Future analyses should aim to oversample or stratify by key population groups and consider tailored validation to ensure that the metric accurately reflects their specific well-being profiles. Further, our study did not include measures of intersecting stigmas or structural vulnerabilities, which may influence QoL among people living with HIV. As a result, we were unable to explore how these factors might contribute to differences in QoL experiences, limiting the depth of interpretation for certain findings. Future research should incorporate qualitative methods&#x02014;such as interviews or focus groups&#x02014;to better contextualize QoL findings, explore the role of intersecting stigmas and structural vulnerabilities, and further refine score construction.</p></sec><sec id="Sec16"><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par56">This study represents a foundational effort to develop a comprehensive index for monitoring the long-term well-being of people living with HIV, integrating the critical domains of comorbidity, quality of life, and discrimination. By employing a systematic and expert-driven process, the Index prioritizes key dimensions most relevant to the challenges faced by PLHIV in Spain. The findings underscore the substantial impact of mental health disorders, cardiovascular diseases, cancers, and stigma-related experiences on well-being, highlighting the need for holistic, person-centered care approaches that address both clinical and psychosocial factors. In addition to providing a valuable framework for future research and healthcare interventions, this work contributes to shifting the focus of HIV care beyond viral suppression to a broader, more inclusive vision of health and well-being, aligning with global efforts to improve quality of life for PLHIV.</p></sec><sec id="Sec17" sec-type="supplementary-material"><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>
<supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM1"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4300_MOESM1_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Additional File 1: Questionnaire.</p></caption></media></supplementary-material><supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM2"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4300_MOESM2_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Additional File 2: Tables S1 and S2. Table S1. Legend: Coefficients of logistic regression assessing the predictive capacity of comorbidities with HRQoL domains. Table S2. Legend: Correlations Among Health Factors and WHOQOL-BREF Domains (<italic>N</italic> = 500).</p></caption></media></supplementary-material></p></sec></body><back><glossary><title>Abbreviations</title><def-list><def-item><term>ART</term><def><p id="Par5">Antiretroviral therapy</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CIBER</term><def><p id="Par6">Consorcio Centro de Investigaci&#x000f3;n Biom&#x000e9;dica en Red</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CoRIS</term><def><p id="Par7">Cohort of the AIDS Research Network</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>COPD</term><def><p id="Par8">Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ERDF</term><def><p id="Par9">European Regional Development Fund</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>FIS</term><def><p id="Par10">Fondo de Investigaci&#x000f3;n Sanitaria</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>HIV/AIDS</term><def><p id="Par11">Human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>HRQoL</term><def><p id="Par12">Health-related quality of life</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ISGlobal</term><def><p id="Par13">Barcelona Institute for Global Health</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MCIN/AEI</term><def><p id="Par14">Ministerio de Ciencia e Innovaci&#x000f3;n/Agencia Estatal de Investigaci&#x000f3;n</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>NGO</term><def><p id="Par15">Non-governmental organization</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PLHIV</term><def><p id="Par16">People living with HIV</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>QoL</term><def><p id="Par17">Quality of life</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>SEISIDA</term><def><p id="Par18">Spanish Interdisciplinary AIDS Society</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>UNAIDS</term><def><p id="Par19">Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>WHO</term><def><p id="Par20">World Health Organization</p></def></def-item></def-list></glossary><fn-group><fn><p><bold>Publisher&#x02019;s Note</bold></p><p>Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.</p></fn></fn-group><ack><title>Acknowledgements</title><p>TMW and JVL acknowledge institutional support to ISGlobal from the grant CEX2023-0001290-S funded by MCIN/AEI/ 10.13039/501100011033, and support from the Generalitat de Catalunya through the CERCA Program.</p></ack><notes notes-type="author-contribution"><title>Authors&#x02019; contributions</title><p>MJF-R and JVL oversaw the study design and implementation. FPH-T led analyses. TMW and CP-S supported analyses. All authors were involved in manuscript writing and editing and approved the final submission.</p></notes><notes notes-type="funding-information"><title>Funding</title><p>This work was funded by the Instituto de Salud Carlos III (ISCIII) through the Fondo de Investigaci&#x000f3;n Sanitaria (FIS) [Grant number: PI20/01654], co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) &#x0201c;A way to make Europe.&#x0201d;</p></notes><notes notes-type="data-availability"><title>Data availability</title><p>No datasets were generated or analysed during the current study.</p></notes><notes><title>Declarations</title><notes id="FPar1"><title>Ethics approval and consent to participate</title><p id="Par57">All study participants provided written informed consent. Ethical approval was obtained from the CeIM of the Hospital Cl&#x000ed;nic in Barcelona for the Delphi process. The Ethics Committee of the Instituto de Salud Carlos III (ISCIII) approved procedures for the CoRIS cohort study on 15-01-2020 (N&#x000ba;: CEI PI 94_2019-v2).</p></notes><notes id="FPar2"><title>Consent for publication</title><p id="Par58">Digital informed consent was obtained for each person who participated in this study.</p></notes><notes id="FPar3" notes-type="COI-statement"><title>Competing interests</title><p id="Par59">MJF-R is a member of the Spanish Interdisciplinary AIDS Society (SEISIDA) Executive Board. SEISIDA has received grants from Gilead, Janssen, MSD and ViiV, outside of the submitted work. MJF-R has provided consultancy services to Gilead, Janssen, MSD, ViiV and Theratechnologies, and has received payments for lectures or educational presentations from Gilead, Janssen, MSD and ViiV, outside of the submitted work. JVL reports grants and speaker fees from Gilead Sciences and MSD and speaker fees from AbbVie, Genft, Intercept and ViiV, outside of the submitted work, and an institutional grant to ISGlobal from Gilead Sciences for other work packages of the comprehensive study of which the present research is a part. All other authors report no conflicts of interest.</p></notes></notes><ref-list id="Bib1"><title>References</title><ref id="CR1"><label>1.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR1" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sabin</surname><given-names>CA</given-names></name><name><surname>Reiss</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Epidemiology of ageing with HIV: What can we learn from cohorts?</article-title><source>AIDS</source><year>2017</year><volume>31</volume><fpage>S121</fpage><lpage>S128</lpage><?supplied-pmid 28471942?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28471942</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR1" publication-type="journal">Sabin CA, Reiss P. Epidemiology of ageing with HIV: What can we learn from cohorts? AIDS. 2017;31:S121&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28471942</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR2"><label>2.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR2" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Costagliola</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Demographics of HIV and aging</article-title><source>Curr Opin HIV AIDS</source><year>2014</year><volume>9</volume><fpage>294</fpage><lpage>301</lpage><?supplied-pmid 24824889?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24824889</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR2" publication-type="journal">Costagliola D. Demographics of HIV and aging. Curr Opin HIV AIDS. 2014;9:294&#x02013;301.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24824889</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR3"><label>3.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Guaraldi G, Orlando G, Zona S, Menozzi M, Carli F, Garlassi E, et al. Premature age-related comorbidities among HIV-infected persons compared with the general population. 10.1093/cid/cir627.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR4"><label>4.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR4" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Maciel</surname><given-names>RA</given-names></name><name><surname>Kl&#x000fc;ck</surname><given-names>HM</given-names></name><name><surname>Durand</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Sprinz</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Comorbidity is more common and occurs earlier in persons living with HIV than in HIV-uninfected matched controls, aged 50 years and older: a cross-sectional study</article-title><source>Int J Infect Dis</source><year>2018</year><volume>70</volume><fpage>30</fpage><lpage>5</lpage><?supplied-pmid 29476902?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29476902</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR4" publication-type="journal">Maciel RA, Kl&#x000fc;ck HM, Durand M, Sprinz E. Comorbidity is more common and occurs earlier in persons living with HIV than in HIV-uninfected matched controls, aged 50 years and older: a cross-sectional study. Int J Infect Dis. 2018;70:30&#x02013;5.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29476902</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR5"><label>5.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR5" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sutton</surname><given-names>SS</given-names></name><name><surname>Magagnoli</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Cummings</surname><given-names>TH</given-names></name><name><surname>Hardin</surname><given-names>JW</given-names></name><name><surname>Edun</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Beaubrun</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Chronic kidney disease, cardiovascular disease, and osteoporotic fractures in patients with and without HIV in the US veteran&#x02019;s affairs administration system</article-title><source>Curr Med Res Opin</source><year>2019</year><volume>35</volume><fpage>117</fpage><lpage>25</lpage><?supplied-pmid 30378450?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30378450</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR5" publication-type="journal">Sutton SS, Magagnoli J, Cummings TH, Hardin JW, Edun B, Beaubrun A. Chronic kidney disease, cardiovascular disease, and osteoporotic fractures in patients with and without HIV in the US veteran&#x02019;s affairs administration system. Curr Med Res Opin. 2019;35:117&#x02013;25.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30378450</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR6"><label>6.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR6" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ford</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Vitoria</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Penazzato</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Doherty</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Shubber</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Meintjes</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Causes of hospital admission among people living with HIV worldwide: A systematic review and meta-analysis</article-title><source>Lancet HIV</source><year>2015</year><volume>2</volume><fpage>e438</fpage><lpage>e444</lpage><?supplied-pmid 26423651?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26423651</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR6" publication-type="journal">Ford N, Vitoria M, Penazzato M, Doherty M, Shubber Z, Meintjes G, et al. Causes of hospital admission among people living with HIV worldwide: A systematic review and meta-analysis. Lancet HIV. 2015;2:e438&#x02013;44.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26423651</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR7"><label>7.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR7" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Miners</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Phillips</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Kreif</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Rodger</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Speakman</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Fisher</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Health-related quality-of-life of people with HIV in the era of combination antiretroviral treatment: a cross-sectional comparison with the general population</article-title><source>Lancet HIV</source><year>2014</year><volume>1</volume><fpage>e32</fpage><lpage>40</lpage><?supplied-pmid 26423814?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26423814</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR7" publication-type="journal">Miners A, Phillips A, Kreif N, Rodger A, Speakman A, Fisher M, et al. Health-related quality-of-life of people with HIV in the era of combination antiretroviral treatment: a cross-sectional comparison with the general population. Lancet HIV. 2014;1:e32-40.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26423814</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR8"><label>8.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR8" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Nu&#x000f1;o</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Mart&#x000ed;nez</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Mart&#x000ed;nez</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Cobos</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Hern&#x000e1;ndez</surname><given-names>JS</given-names></name><name><surname>Polo</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Sex differences in health-related quality of life and poverty risk among older people living with HIV in Spain: a cross-sectional study</article-title><source>PLoS One</source><year>2024</year><volume>19</volume><fpage>e0301335</fpage><?supplied-pmid 38713682?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38713682</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR8" publication-type="journal">Nu&#x000f1;o N, Mart&#x000ed;nez A, Mart&#x000ed;nez S, Cobos M, Hern&#x000e1;ndez JS, Polo R. Sex differences in health-related quality of life and poverty risk among older people living with HIV in Spain: a cross-sectional study. PLoS One. 2024;19: e0301335.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38713682</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR9"><label>9.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR9" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bra&#x000f1;as</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>S&#x000e1;nchez-Conde</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Carli</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Menozzi</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Raimondi</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Milic</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Sex Differences in People Aging With HIV</article-title><source>JAIDS Journal of Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndromes</source><year>2020</year><volume>83</volume><fpage>284</fpage><lpage>291</lpage><?supplied-pmid 32032279?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32032279</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR9" publication-type="journal">Bra&#x000f1;as F, S&#x000e1;nchez-Conde M, Carli F, Menozzi M, Raimondi A, Milic J, et al. Sex Differences in People Aging With HIV. JAIDS Journal of Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndromes. 2020;83:284&#x02013;91.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32032279</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR10"><label>10.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR10" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Safreed-Harmon</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Anderson</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Azzopardi-Muscat</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Behrens</surname><given-names>GMN</given-names></name><name><surname>d&#x02019;Arminio Monforte</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Davidovich</surname><given-names>U</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Reorienting health systems to care for people with HIV beyond viral suppression</article-title><source>Lancet HIV</source><year>2019</year><volume>6</volume><fpage>e869</fpage><lpage>e877</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31776099?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31776099</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR10" publication-type="journal">Safreed-Harmon K, Anderson J, Azzopardi-Muscat N, Behrens GMN, d&#x02019;Arminio Monforte A, Davidovich U, et al. Reorienting health systems to care for people with HIV beyond viral suppression. Lancet HIV. 2019;6:e869&#x02013;77.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31776099</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR11"><label>11.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR11" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Safreed-Harmon</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Kall</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Anderson</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Azzopardi-Muscat</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Behrens</surname><given-names>GMN</given-names></name><name><surname>d&#x02019;Arminio Monforte</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Ability to Monitor National Responses to the HIV Epidemic &#x0201c;Beyond Viral Suppression&#x0201d;: Findings From Six European Countries</article-title><source>Front Public Health</source><year>2020</year><volume>8</volume><fpage>36</fpage><?supplied-pmid 32266194?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32266194</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR11" publication-type="journal">Safreed-Harmon K, Kall M, Anderson J, Azzopardi-Muscat N, Behrens GMN, d&#x02019;Arminio Monforte A, et al. Ability to Monitor National Responses to the HIV Epidemic &#x0201c;Beyond Viral Suppression&#x0201d;: Findings From Six European Countries. Front Public Health. 2020;8: 36.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32266194</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR12"><label>12.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR12" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Webster</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>UNAIDS survey aligns with so-called fourth 90 for HIV/AIDS</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2019</year><volume>393</volume><fpage>2188</fpage><?supplied-pmid 34509217?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34509217</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR12" publication-type="journal">Webster P. UNAIDS survey aligns with so-called fourth 90 for HIV/AIDS. Lancet. 2019;393:2188.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34509217</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR13"><label>13.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">World Health Organization (WHO). Global health sector strategies on, respectively, HIV, viral hepatitis and sexually transmitted infections for the period 2022&#x02013;2030. Geneva; 2022.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR14"><label>14.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR14" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lazarus</surname><given-names>JV</given-names></name><name><surname>Safreed-Harmon</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Barton</surname><given-names>SE</given-names></name><name><surname>Costagliola</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Dedes</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>del Amo</surname><given-names>VJ</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Beyond viral suppression of HIV - the new quality of life frontier</article-title><source>BMC Med</source><year>2016</year><volume>14</volume><fpage>94</fpage><?supplied-pmid 27334606?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27334606</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR14" publication-type="journal">Lazarus JV, Safreed-Harmon K, Barton SE, Costagliola D, Dedes N, del Amo VJ, et al. Beyond viral suppression of HIV - the new quality of life frontier. BMC Med. 2016;14:94.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27334606</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR15"><label>15.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR15" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lazarus</surname><given-names>JV</given-names></name><name><surname>Safreed-Harmon</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Kamarulzaman</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Anderson</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Leite</surname><given-names>RB</given-names></name><name><surname>Behrens</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Consensus statement on the role of health systems in advancing the long-term well-being of people living with HIV</article-title><source>Nat Commun</source><year>2021</year><volume>12</volume><fpage>1</fpage><lpage>14</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33397941</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR15" publication-type="journal">Lazarus JV, Safreed-Harmon K, Kamarulzaman A, Anderson J, Leite RB, Behrens G, et al. Consensus statement on the role of health systems in advancing the long-term well-being of people living with HIV. Nat Commun. 2021;12:1&#x02013;14.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33397941</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR16"><label>16.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR16" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Jones</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Hunter</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Qualitative Research: Consensus methods for medical and health services research</article-title><source>BMJ</source><year>1995</year><volume>311</volume><fpage>376</fpage><lpage>380</lpage><?supplied-pmid 7640549?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">7640549</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR16" publication-type="journal">Jones J, Hunter D. Qualitative Research: Consensus methods for medical and health services research. BMJ. 1995;311:376&#x02013;80.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">7640549</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR17"><label>17.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Divisi&#x000f3;n de control de VIH y ITS de Epidemiolog&#x000ed;a. Vigilancia Epidemiol&#x000f3;gica del VIH y sida en Espa&#x000f1;a 2020: Sistema de Informaci&#x000f3;n sobre Nuevos Diagn&#x000f3;sticos de VIH y Registro Nacional de Casos de Sida. 2021.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR18"><label>18.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR18" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Charlson</surname><given-names>ME</given-names></name><name><surname>Pompei</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Ales</surname><given-names>KL</given-names></name><name><surname>MacKenzie</surname><given-names>CR</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>A new method of classifying prognostic comorbidity in longitudinal studies: development and validation</article-title><source>J Chronic Dis</source><year>1987</year><volume>40</volume><fpage>373</fpage><lpage>83</lpage><?supplied-pmid 3558716?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">3558716</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR18" publication-type="journal">Charlson ME, Pompei P, Ales KL, MacKenzie CR. A new method of classifying prognostic comorbidity in longitudinal studies: development and validation. J Chronic Dis. 1987;40:373&#x02013;83.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">3558716</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR19"><label>19.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR19" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Berger</surname><given-names>BE</given-names></name><name><surname>Ferrans</surname><given-names>CE</given-names></name><name><surname>Lashley</surname><given-names>FR</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Measuring stigma in people with HIV: psychometric assessment of the HIV stigma scale</article-title><source>Res Nurs Health</source><year>2001</year><volume>24</volume><fpage>518</fpage><lpage>29</lpage><?supplied-pmid 11746080?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">11746080</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR19" publication-type="journal">Berger BE, Ferrans CE, Lashley FR. Measuring stigma in people with HIV: psychometric assessment of the HIV stigma scale. Res Nurs Health. 2001;24:518&#x02013;29.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">11746080</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR20"><label>20.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">World Health Organization. WHOQOL: Measuring Quality of Life. 2012.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR21"><label>21.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Adler M, Ziglio E. Gazing into the oracle&#x0202f;: the Delphi method and its application to social policy and public health. 1996.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR22"><label>22.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Grime MM, Wright G. Delphi Method. In: Wiley StatsRef: Statistics Reference Online. John Wiley &#x00026; Sons, Ltd; 2016. p. 1&#x02013;6.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR23"><label>23.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR23" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Fraenkel</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Grofman</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The borda count and its real-world alternatives: comparing scoring rules in Nauru and Slovenia</article-title><source>Aust J Polit Sci</source><year>2014</year><volume>49</volume><fpage>186</fpage><lpage>205</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR23" publication-type="journal">Fraenkel J, Grofman B. The borda count and its real-world alternatives: comparing scoring rules in Nauru and Slovenia. Aust J Polit Sci. 2014;49:186&#x02013;205.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR24"><label>24.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR24" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Fuster-Ruizdeapodaca</surname><given-names>MJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Lagu&#x000ed;a</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Safreed-Harmon</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Lazarus</surname><given-names>JV</given-names></name><name><surname>Cenoz</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Del Amo</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Assessing quality of life in people with HIV in Spain: Psychometric testing of the Spanish version of WHOQOL-HIV-BREF</article-title><source>Health Qual Life Outcomes</source><year>2019</year><volume>17</volume><fpage>1</fpage><lpage>13</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30606205</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR24" publication-type="journal">Fuster-Ruizdeapodaca MJ, Lagu&#x000ed;a A, Safreed-Harmon K, Lazarus JV, Cenoz S, Del Amo J. Assessing quality of life in people with HIV in Spain: Psychometric testing of the Spanish version of WHOQOL-HIV-BREF. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2019;17:1&#x02013;13.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30606205</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR25"><label>25.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR25" publication-type="book"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Validity</surname><given-names>MS</given-names></name></person-group><person-group person-group-type="editor"><name><surname>Linn</surname><given-names>RL</given-names></name></person-group><source>Educational measurement</source><year>1989</year><edition>3</edition><publisher-loc>Co</publisher-loc><publisher-name>Macmillan Publishing</publisher-name><fpage>13</fpage><lpage>103</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR25" publication-type="book">Validity MS. In: Linn RL, editor. Educational measurement. 3rd ed. Co: Macmillan Publishing; 1989. p. 13&#x02013;103.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR26"><label>26.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR26" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kall</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Marcellin</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Harding</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Lazarus</surname><given-names>JV</given-names></name><name><surname>Carrieri</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Patient-reported outcomes to enhance person-centred HIV care</article-title><source>Lancet HIV</source><year>2020</year><volume>7</volume><fpage>e59</fpage><lpage>68</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31776101?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31776101</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR26" publication-type="journal">Kall M, Marcellin F, Harding R, Lazarus JV, Carrieri P. Patient-reported outcomes to enhance person-centred HIV care. Lancet HIV. 2020;7:e59-68.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31776101</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR27"><label>27.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Safreed-Harmon K, Fuster-RuizdeApodaca MJ, Pastor de la Cal M, Lazarus J V. Problems undermining the health-related quality of life of people living with HIV in Spain: a qualitative study to inform the development of a novel clinic screening tool. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2022;20(1):84.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR28"><label>28.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Fuster-RuizdeApodaca MJ, White TM, Prats-Silvestre C, Iniesta C, Lazarus JV. A quality-of-life indicator for HIV care beyond viral suppression in Spain. In: 19th European AIDS Conference. Warsaw; 2023.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR29"><label>29.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR29" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Vinuesa-Hernando</surname><given-names>JM</given-names></name><name><surname>Gimeno-Gracia</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Malo</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Sanjoaquin-Conde</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Crusells-Canales</surname><given-names>MJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Letona-Carbajo</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Potentially inappropriate prescriptions and therapeutic complexity in older HIV patients with comorbidities</article-title><source>Int J Clin Pharm</source><year>2021</year><volume>43</volume><fpage>1245</fpage><lpage>1250</lpage><?supplied-pmid 33543418?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33543418</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR29" publication-type="journal">Vinuesa-Hernando JM, Gimeno-Gracia M, Malo S, Sanjoaquin-Conde I, Crusells-Canales MJ, Letona-Carbajo S, et al. Potentially inappropriate prescriptions and therapeutic complexity in older HIV patients with comorbidities. Int J Clin Pharm. 2021;43:1245&#x02013;50.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33543418</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR30"><label>30.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR30" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bayes-Marin</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Egea-Cort&#x000e9;s</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Palacio-Vieira</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Bruguera</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Mes&#x000ed;as-Gazmuri</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Llibre</surname><given-names>JM</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Determinants of depressive symptoms in people living with HIV: findings from a population-based study with a gender perspective</article-title><source>Int J Environ Res Public Health</source><year>2023</year><?supplied-pmid 36834381?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36834381</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR30" publication-type="journal">Bayes-Marin I, Egea-Cort&#x000e9;s L, Palacio-Vieira J, Bruguera A, Mes&#x000ed;as-Gazmuri J, Llibre JM, et al. Determinants of depressive symptoms in people living with HIV: findings from a population-based study with a gender perspective. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023. 10.3390/ijerph20043687.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36834381</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR31"><label>31.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR31" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Knobel</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Domingo</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Suarez-Lozano</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Gutierrez</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Estrada</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Palacios</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Rate of cardiovascular, renal and bone disease and their major risks factors in HIV-infected individuals on antiretroviral therapy in Spain</article-title><source>Enferm Infecc Microbiol Clin</source><year>2019</year><volume>37</volume><fpage>373</fpage><lpage>9</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR31" publication-type="journal">Knobel H, Domingo P, Suarez-Lozano I, Gutierrez F, Estrada V, Palacios R, et al. Rate of cardiovascular, renal and bone disease and their major risks factors in HIV-infected individuals on antiretroviral therapy in Spain. Enferm Infecc Microbiol Clin. 2019;37:373&#x02013;9.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR32"><label>32.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR32" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Guti&#x000e9;rrez</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Padilla</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Garc&#x000ed;a-Abell&#x000e1;n</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Guti&#x000e9;rrez-Ortiz de la Tabla</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Ledesma</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Masi&#x000e1;</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Cancer screening in people with HIV: implementation in clinical practice and barriers perceived by medical specialists in Spain</article-title><source>Enfermedades infecciosas y microbiologia clinica (English ed)</source><year>2024</year><volume>42</volume><fpage>563</fpage><lpage>9</lpage><?supplied-pmid 38262880?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38262880</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR32" publication-type="journal">Guti&#x000e9;rrez F, Padilla S, Garc&#x000ed;a-Abell&#x000e1;n J, Guti&#x000e9;rrez-Ortiz de la Tabla A, Ledesma C, Masi&#x000e1; M. Cancer screening in people with HIV: implementation in clinical practice and barriers perceived by medical specialists in Spain. Enfermedades infecciosas y microbiologia clinica (English ed). 2024;42:563&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38262880</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR33"><label>33.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR33" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Guaraldi</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Milic</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The interplay between frailty and intrinsic capacity in aging and HIV infection</article-title><source>AIDS Res Hum Retroviruses</source><year>2019</year><volume>35</volume><fpage>1013</fpage><lpage>1022</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31452380?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31452380</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR33" publication-type="journal">Guaraldi G, Milic J. The interplay between frailty and intrinsic capacity in aging and HIV infection. AIDS Res Hum Retroviruses. 2019;35:1013&#x02013;22.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31452380</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR34"><label>34.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR34" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Guaraldi</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Arends</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Buhk</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Cascio</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Curran</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Teofilo</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>&#x0201c;Moving fourth&#x0201d;: A vision toward achieving healthy living with HIV beyond viral suppression</article-title><source>AIDS Rev</source><year>2019</year><volume>21</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>135</fpage><lpage>42</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31532396?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31532396</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR34" publication-type="journal">Guaraldi G, Arends J, Buhk T, Cascio M, Curran A, Teofilo E, et al. &#x0201c;Moving fourth&#x0201d;: A vision toward achieving healthy living with HIV beyond viral suppression. AIDS Rev. 2019;21(3):135&#x02013;42.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31532396</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR35"><label>35.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR35" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sambou</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Pourette</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Debeaudrap</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Raho-Moussa</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Allavena</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Multimorbidity in elderly people living with HIV: how do general practitioners manage?</article-title><source>Sante Publique (Paris)</source><year>2023</year><volume>35</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>37</fpage><lpage>45</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR35" publication-type="journal">Sambou C, Pourette D, Debeaudrap P, Raho-Moussa M, Allavena C. Multimorbidity in elderly people living with HIV: how do general practitioners manage? Sante Publique (Paris). 2023;35(1):37&#x02013;45.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR36"><label>36.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR36" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Freisling</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Viallon</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Lennon</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Bagnardi</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Ricci</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Butterworth</surname><given-names>AS</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Lifestyle factors and risk of multimorbidity of cancer and cardiometabolic diseases: a multinational cohort study</article-title><source>BMC Med</source><year>2020</year><?supplied-pmid 32878631?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32878631</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR36" publication-type="journal">Freisling H, Viallon V, Lennon H, Bagnardi V, Ricci C, Butterworth AS, et al. Lifestyle factors and risk of multimorbidity of cancer and cardiometabolic diseases: a multinational cohort study. BMC Med. 2020. 10.1186/s12916-019-1474-7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32878631</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR37"><label>37.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR37" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Fontela</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Castilla</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Juanbeltz</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Mart&#x000ed;nez-Baz</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Rivero</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>O&#x02019;Leary</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Comorbidities and cardiovascular risk factors in an aged cohort of HIV-infected patients on antiretroviral treatment in a Spanish hospital in 2016</article-title><source>Postgrad Med</source><year>2018</year><volume>130</volume><fpage>317</fpage><lpage>324</lpage><?supplied-pmid 29486621?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29486621</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR37" publication-type="journal">Fontela C, Castilla J, Juanbeltz R, Mart&#x000ed;nez-Baz I, Rivero M, O&#x02019;Leary A, et al. Comorbidities and cardiovascular risk factors in an aged cohort of HIV-infected patients on antiretroviral treatment in a Spanish hospital in 2016. Postgrad Med. 2018;130:317&#x02013;24.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29486621</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR38"><label>38.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR38" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Camps-Vilar&#x000f3;</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>P&#x000e9;rez-Fern&#x000e1;ndez</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Subirana</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Teira</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Estrada</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Domingo</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Standardized comparison of cardiovascular risk factors prevalence in Spanish women and men living with HIV and in the general population</article-title><source>J Pers Med</source><year>2021</year><volume>11</volume><fpage>1085</fpage><?supplied-pmid 34834438?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34834438</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR38" publication-type="journal">Camps-Vilar&#x000f3; A, P&#x000e9;rez-Fern&#x000e1;ndez S, Subirana I, Teira R, Estrada V, Domingo P, et al. Standardized comparison of cardiovascular risk factors prevalence in Spanish women and men living with HIV and in the general population. J Pers Med. 2021;11:1085.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34834438</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR39"><label>39.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR39" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bra&#x000f1;as</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Jim&#x000e9;nez</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>S&#x000e1;nchez-Conde</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Dronda</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>De Quir&#x000f3;s</surname><given-names>JCLB</given-names></name><name><surname>P&#x000e9;rez-El&#x000ed;as</surname><given-names>MJ</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Frailty and physical function in older HIV-infected adults</article-title><source>Age Ageing</source><year>2017</year><volume>46</volume><fpage>522</fpage><lpage>526</lpage><?supplied-pmid 28203694?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28203694</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR39" publication-type="journal">Bra&#x000f1;as F, Jim&#x000e9;nez Z, S&#x000e1;nchez-Conde M, Dronda F, De Quir&#x000f3;s JCLB, P&#x000e9;rez-El&#x000ed;as MJ, et al. Frailty and physical function in older HIV-infected adults. Age Ageing. 2017;46:522&#x02013;6.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28203694</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR40"><label>40.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">AIDS Study Group-SEIMC (GeSIDA). [GeSIDA Consensus Document for the Evaluation and Treatment of Kidney Diseases in Patients with Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Infection]. 2020.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR41"><label>41.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">AIDS Study Group-SEIMC (GeSIDA). [Consensus document on the diagnosis and treatment of sexually transmitted infections in adults, children, and adolescents]. 2017.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR42"><label>42.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">AIDS Study Group-SEIMC (GeSIDA). [Consensus document on metabolic disorders and cardiovascular risk in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection]. Elsevier; 2015.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR43"><label>43.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">AIDS Study Group-SEIMC (GeSIDA). [Consensus document on the clinical management of neuropsychiatric and cognitive comorbidity associated with HIV-1 infection]. 2020.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR44"><label>44.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Unidad de vigilancia del VIH ITS y hepatitis B y C. Actualizaci&#x000f3;n del continuo de atenci&#x000f3;n del VIH en Espa&#x000f1;a, 2021&#x02013;2022. Madrid; 2023.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR45"><label>45.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">White TM. Enhancing the responsiveness of HIV healthcare services in Spain to address long-term well-being. University of Barcelona; 2024.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR46"><label>46.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Fuster-Ruiz de Apodaca M, Prats-Silvestre C, Iniesta C, Koerting A, Velayos R, Del Amo J. Informe del estudio: &#x0201c;Experiencia de estigma de las personas con el VIH en Espa&#x000f1;a.&#x0201d; Madrid; 2024.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR47"><label>47.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR47" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Gogishvili</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Costa</surname><given-names>SA</given-names></name><name><surname>Fl&#x000f3;rez</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>TT</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Policy implementation analysis on access to healthcare among undocumented immigrants in seven autonomous communities of Spain, 2012&#x02013;2018</article-title><source>BMJ Open</source><year>2021</year><volume>11</volume><fpage>45626</fpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR47" publication-type="journal">Gogishvili M, Costa SA, Fl&#x000f3;rez K, Huang TT. Policy implementation analysis on access to healthcare among undocumented immigrants in seven autonomous communities of Spain, 2012&#x02013;2018. BMJ Open. 2021;11: 45626.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR48"><label>48.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">United Nations General Assembly. Political Declaration on HIV and AIDS: Ending Inequalities and Getting on Track to End AIDS by 2030. 2021.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR49"><label>49.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR49" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Genberg</surname><given-names>BL</given-names></name><name><surname>Kawichai</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Chingono</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Sendah</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Chariyalertsak</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Konda</surname><given-names>KA</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Assessing HIV/AIDS stigma and discrimination in developing countries</article-title><source>AIDS Behav</source><year>2008</year><volume>12</volume><fpage>772</fpage><lpage>780</lpage><?supplied-pmid 18080830?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18080830</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR49" publication-type="journal">Genberg BL, Kawichai S, Chingono A, Sendah M, Chariyalertsak S, Konda KA, et al. Assessing HIV/AIDS stigma and discrimination in developing countries. AIDS Behav. 2008;12:772&#x02013;80.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18080830</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR50"><label>50.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR50" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wagner</surname><given-names>AC</given-names></name><name><surname>Girard</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>McShane</surname><given-names>KE</given-names></name><name><surname>Margolese</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Hart</surname><given-names>TA</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>HIV-related stigma and overlapping stigmas towards people living with HIV among health care trainees in Canada</article-title><source>AIDS Educ Prev</source><year>2017</year><volume>29</volume><fpage>364</fpage><lpage>76</lpage><?supplied-pmid 28825863?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28825863</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR50" publication-type="journal">Wagner AC, Girard T, McShane KE, Margolese S, Hart TA. HIV-related stigma and overlapping stigmas towards people living with HIV among health care trainees in Canada. AIDS Educ Prev. 2017;29:364&#x02013;76.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28825863</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR51"><label>51.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR51" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Stangl</surname><given-names>AL</given-names></name><name><surname>Earnshaw</surname><given-names>VA</given-names></name><name><surname>Logie</surname><given-names>CH</given-names></name><name><surname>Van Brakel</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Simbayi</surname><given-names>LC</given-names></name><name><surname>Barr&#x000e9;</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The Health Stigma and Discrimination Framework: A global, crosscutting framework to inform research, intervention development, and policy on health-related stigmas</article-title><source>BMC Med</source><year>2019</year><volume>17</volume><fpage>18</fpage><lpage>23</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30678686</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR51" publication-type="journal">Stangl AL, Earnshaw VA, Logie CH, Van Brakel W, Simbayi LC, Barr&#x000e9; I, et al. The Health Stigma and Discrimination Framework: A global, crosscutting framework to inform research, intervention development, and policy on health-related stigmas. BMC Med. 2019;17:18&#x02013;23.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30678686</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR52"><label>52.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR52" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kay</surname><given-names>ES</given-names></name><name><surname>Rice</surname><given-names>WS</given-names></name><name><surname>Crockett</surname><given-names>KB</given-names></name><name><surname>Atkins</surname><given-names>GC</given-names></name><name><surname>Batey</surname><given-names>DS</given-names></name><name><surname>Turan</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Experienced HIV-related stigma in health care and community settings: mediated associations with psychosocial and health outcomes</article-title><source>J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr</source><year>2018</year><volume>77</volume><fpage>257</fpage><lpage>63</lpage><?supplied-pmid 29140873?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29140873</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR52" publication-type="journal">Kay ES, Rice WS, Crockett KB, Atkins GC, Batey DS, Turan B. Experienced HIV-related stigma in health care and community settings: mediated associations with psychosocial and health outcomes. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2018;77:257&#x02013;63.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29140873</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR53"><label>53.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR53" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Earnshaw</surname><given-names>VA</given-names></name><name><surname>Eaton</surname><given-names>LA</given-names></name><name><surname>Collier</surname><given-names>ZK</given-names></name><name><surname>Watson</surname><given-names>RJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Maksut</surname><given-names>JL</given-names></name><name><surname>Rucinski</surname><given-names>KB</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>HIV stigma, depressive symptoms, and substance use</article-title><source>AIDS Patient Care STDS</source><year>2020</year><volume>34</volume><fpage>275</fpage><lpage>80</lpage><?supplied-pmid 32484742?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32484742</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR53" publication-type="journal">Earnshaw VA, Eaton LA, Collier ZK, Watson RJ, Maksut JL, Rucinski KB, et al. HIV stigma, depressive symptoms, and substance use. AIDS Patient Care STDS. 2020;34:275&#x02013;80.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32484742</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR54"><label>54.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR54" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Garrido-Hernansaiz</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Heylen</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Bharat</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Ramakrishna</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Ekstrand</surname><given-names>ML</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Stigmas, symptom severity and perceived social support predict quality of life for PLHIV in urban Indian context</article-title><source>Health Qual Life Outcomes</source><year>2016</year><volume>14</volume><fpage>152</fpage><?supplied-pmid 27809839?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27809839</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR54" publication-type="journal">Garrido-Hernansaiz H, Heylen E, Bharat S, Ramakrishna J, Ekstrand ML. Stigmas, symptom severity and perceived social support predict quality of life for PLHIV in urban Indian context. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2016;14:152.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27809839</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR55"><label>55.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR55" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Conway</surname><given-names>AS</given-names></name><name><surname>Esteve</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Fern&#x000e1;ndez-Quevedo</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Casabona</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Determinants and Outcomes of Late Presentation of HIV Infection in Migrants in Catalonia, Spain: PISCIS Cohort 2004&#x02013;2016</article-title><source>J Immigr Minor Health</source><year>2019</year><volume>21</volume><fpage>920</fpage><lpage>930</lpage><?supplied-pmid 30377891?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30377891</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR55" publication-type="journal">Conway AS, Esteve A, Fern&#x000e1;ndez-Quevedo M, Casabona J. Determinants and Outcomes of Late Presentation of HIV Infection in Migrants in Catalonia, Spain: PISCIS Cohort 2004&#x02013;2016. J Immigr Minor Health. 2019;21:920&#x02013;30.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30377891</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR56"><label>56.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR56" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Gogishvili</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>TTK</given-names></name><name><surname>Costa</surname><given-names>SA</given-names></name><name><surname>Florez</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Mateu-Gelabert</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Valls</surname><given-names>MRA</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Late HIV diagnosis among immigrants in Spain vs. native-born Spaniards, 2010&#x02013;15</article-title><source>Eur J Public Health</source><year>2021</year><volume>31</volume><fpage>1123</fpage><lpage>8</lpage><?supplied-pmid 34405861?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34405861</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR56" publication-type="journal">Gogishvili M, Huang TTK, Costa SA, Florez K, Mateu-Gelabert P, Valls MRA, et al. Late HIV diagnosis among immigrants in Spain vs. native-born Spaniards, 2010&#x02013;15. Eur J Public Health. 2021;31:1123&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34405861</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR57"><label>57.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR57" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Gogishvili</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Fl&#x000f3;rez</surname><given-names>KR</given-names></name><name><surname>Costa</surname><given-names>SA</given-names></name><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>TTK</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>A qualitative study on mixed experiences of discrimination and healthcare access among HIV-positive immigrants in Spain</article-title><source>BMC Public Health</source><year>2021</year><volume>21</volume><fpage>1</fpage><lpage>15</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33388037</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR57" publication-type="journal">Gogishvili M, Fl&#x000f3;rez KR, Costa SA, Huang TTK. A qualitative study on mixed experiences of discrimination and healthcare access among HIV-positive immigrants in Spain. BMC Public Health. 2021;21:1&#x02013;15.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33388037</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR58"><label>58.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR58" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ndumbi</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Del Romero</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Pulido</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Velasco Arribas</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Dronda</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Blanco Ramos</surname><given-names>JR</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Barriers to health care services for migrants living with HIV in Spain</article-title><source>Eur J Public Health</source><year>2018</year><volume>28</volume><fpage>451</fpage><lpage>7</lpage><?supplied-pmid 29325097?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29325097</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR58" publication-type="journal">Ndumbi P, Del Romero J, Pulido F, Velasco Arribas M, Dronda F, Blanco Ramos JR, et al. Barriers to health care services for migrants living with HIV in Spain. Eur J Public Health. 2018;28:451&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29325097</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR59"><label>59.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR59" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Andersson</surname><given-names>GZ</given-names></name><name><surname>Reinius</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Eriksson</surname><given-names>LE</given-names></name><name><surname>Svedhem</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Esfahani</surname><given-names>FM</given-names></name><name><surname>Deuba</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Stigma reduction interventions in people living with HIV to improve health-related quality of life</article-title><source>Lancet HIV</source><year>2020</year><volume>7</volume><fpage>e129</fpage><lpage>e140</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31776098?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31776098</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR59" publication-type="journal">Andersson GZ, Reinius M, Eriksson LE, Svedhem V, Esfahani FM, Deuba K, et al. Stigma reduction interventions in people living with HIV to improve health-related quality of life. Lancet HIV. 2020;7:e129&#x02013;40.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31776098</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR60"><label>60.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR60" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bourne</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Croston</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Resurrecting the &#x0201c;fourth 90&#x0201d;: towards a definition of health-related quality of life in HIV care</article-title><source>British Journal of Nursing</source><year>2022</year><volume>31</volume><fpage>S23</fpage><lpage>S27</lpage><?supplied-pmid 35678815?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35678815</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR60" publication-type="journal">Bourne K, Croston M. Resurrecting the &#x0201c;fourth 90&#x0201d;: towards a definition of health-related quality of life in HIV care. British Journal of Nursing. 2022;31:S23&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35678815</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR61"><label>61.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR61" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Feyissa</surname><given-names>GT</given-names></name><name><surname>Lockwood</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Woldie</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Munn</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Reducing HIV-related stigma and discrimination in healthcare settings: a systematic review of quantitative evidence</article-title><source>PLoS One</source><year>2019</year><volume>14</volume><fpage>e0211298</fpage><?supplied-pmid 30682131?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30682131</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR61" publication-type="journal">Feyissa GT, Lockwood C, Woldie M, Munn Z. Reducing HIV-related stigma and discrimination in healthcare settings: a systematic review of quantitative evidence. PLoS One. 2019;14:e0211298.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30682131</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR62"><label>62.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR62" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lazarus</surname><given-names>JV</given-names></name><name><surname>Van Hout</surname><given-names>MC</given-names></name><name><surname>Fuster-Ruizdeapodaca</surname><given-names>MJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Brown</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Guaraldi</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>A call for health systems to monitor the health-related quality of life of people living with HIV</article-title><source>HIV Med</source><year>2023</year><volume>24</volume><fpage>107</fpage><lpage>10</lpage><?supplied-pmid 36418018?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36418018</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR62" publication-type="journal">Lazarus JV, Van Hout MC, Fuster-Ruizdeapodaca MJ, Brown G, Guaraldi G. A call for health systems to monitor the health-related quality of life of people living with HIV. HIV Med. 2023;24:107&#x02013;10.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36418018</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref></ref-list></back></article>