# Sjögren's syndrome is associated with a reduction in the surface area of the right caudal anterior cingulate gyrus.

<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//NLM//DTD JATS (Z39.96) Journal Archiving and Interchange DTD with MathML3 v1.3 20210610//EN" "JATS-archivearticle1-3-mathml3.dtd"> 
<article xmlns:ali="http://www.niso.org/schemas/ali/1.0/" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" article-type="research-article" dtd-version="1.3"><?properties open_access?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierValue -//Springer-Verlag//DTD A++ V2.4//EN?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierType public?><?SourceDTD.DTDName A++V2.4.dtd?><?SourceDTD.Version 2.4?><?ConverterInfo.XSLTName springer2nlmx2.xsl?><?ConverterInfo.Version 1?><processing-meta base-tagset="archiving" mathml-version="3.0" table-model="xhtml" tagset-family="jats"><restricted-by>pmc</restricted-by></processing-meta><front><journal-meta><journal-id journal-id-type="nlm-ta">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-id journal-id-type="iso-abbrev">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-title-group><journal-title>BMC Medicine</journal-title></journal-title-group><issn pub-type="epub">1741-7015</issn><publisher><publisher-name>BioMed Central</publisher-name><publisher-loc>London</publisher-loc></publisher></journal-meta>
<article-meta><article-id pub-id-type="pmcid">12239479</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="pmid">40629343</article-id>
<article-id pub-id-type="publisher-id">4205</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12916-025-04205-9</article-id><article-categories><subj-group subj-group-type="heading"><subject>Research</subject></subj-group></article-categories><title-group><article-title>Sj&#x000f6;gren&#x02019;s syndrome is associated with a reduction in the surface area of the right caudal anterior cingulate gyrus</article-title></title-group><contrib-group><contrib contrib-type="author" equal-contrib="yes"><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Ping</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" equal-contrib="yes"><name><surname>Tai</surname><given-names>Yunpeng</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" equal-contrib="yes"><name><surname>Zhu</surname><given-names>Xiaofang</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Wan</surname><given-names>Xinyi</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff4">4</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Sun</surname><given-names>An</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff4">4</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Jiajia</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff5">5</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Cheng</surname><given-names>Hui</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Hong</surname><given-names>Jingwei</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Yi</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Xiaobing</given-names></name><address><email>gale820907@163.com</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><aff id="Aff1"><label>1</label>Department of Rheumatology and Immunology, Changzheng Hospital, Naval Medical University, Shanghai, 200003 China </aff><aff id="Aff2"><label>2</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/03cyvdv85</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.414906.e</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 1808 0918</institution-id><institution>Department of Radiology, </institution><institution>First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, </institution></institution-wrap>Wenzhou, 325000 China </aff><aff id="Aff3"><label>3</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/03cyvdv85</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.414906.e</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 1808 0918</institution-id><institution>Department of Rheumatology, </institution><institution>The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, </institution></institution-wrap>Wenzhou, 325000 China </aff><aff id="Aff4"><label>4</label>Department of Radiology, Changzheng Hospital, Naval Medical University, Shanghai, 200003 China </aff><aff id="Aff5"><label>5</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/03cyvdv85</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.414906.e</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 1808 0918</institution-id><institution>Department of Ultrasound, </institution><institution>The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, </institution></institution-wrap>Wenzhou, Zhejiang Province 325000 China </aff></contrib-group><pub-date pub-type="epub"><day>9</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="pmc-release"><day>9</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="collection"><year>2025</year></pub-date><volume>23</volume><elocation-id>415</elocation-id><history><date date-type="received"><day>11</day><month>11</month><year>2024</year></date><date date-type="accepted"><day>11</day><month>6</month><year>2025</year></date></history><permissions><copyright-statement>&#x000a9; The Author(s) 2025</copyright-statement><copyright-year>2025</copyright-year><license><ali:license_ref specific-use="textmining" content-type="ccbyncndlicense">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ali:license_ref><license-p><bold>Open Access</bold> This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed material. You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/">http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ext-link>.</license-p></license></permissions><abstract id="Abs1"><sec><title>Background</title><p id="Par1">Sj&#x000f6;gren&#x02019;s syndrome (SS) is a common chronic autoimmune disease. Neurological involvement in SS represents one of the more severe and challenging aspects, with complications affecting the central system leading to cognitive dysfunction, sensory neuropathy, and multifocal sensorimotor neuropathies among other cortical function abnormalities. The relationship between cerebral cortex structure and neurological pathologies is well-documented, yet the impact of SS on cerebral cortex structure remains unclear.</p></sec><sec><title>Methods</title><p id="Par2">A two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis was conducted using four single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with SS. Summary data from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) on SS and brain cortical structure were analyzed using inverse-variance weighted (IVW), MR-Egger, and weighted median (WM) methods. Sensitivity analyses were performed to ensure reliability. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanning of a group of established but treatment-na&#x000ef;ve SS patients were performed and assessed for validation. For TWAS (transcriptome-wide association studies), we used the RNA sequencing expression data from the Genotype-Tissue Expression version 8 (GTEx v8) for the cerebral cortex as a reference dataset and predicted the mRNA expression levels of cis-regulated genes in the cerebral cortex using linear models based on expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs). We also used CELLECT to leverage genome-wide association study (GWAS) and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data to identify pathogenic cell types.</p></sec><sec><title>Results</title><p id="Par3">The MR analysis revealed a negative genetic causal relationship between SS and brain structure (entorhinal: IVW: beta&#x02009;= &#x02212;&#x02009;3.4398, SE&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.6954, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.0425; caudal anterior cingulate gyrus: IVW: beta&#x02009;= &#x02212;&#x02009;4.2947, SE&#x02009;=&#x02009;2.0593, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.0370). Brain MRI of SS patients confirmed a reduction in the surface area of the right caudal anterior cingulate. TWAS identified genes associated with SS in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region and identified PRTFDC1 in the caudal anterior cingulate gyrus. Cell-type enrichment analysis indicated that excitatory glutamatergic cells are primarily involved in the brain changes associated with SS.</p></sec><sec><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par4">This study suggests that SS is a risk factor for changes in brain cortical structure, with a reduction in the surface area of the right caudal anterior cingulate gyrus. The identified genes and cell types provide insights into the mechanisms underlying the effects of SS on brain structure.</p></sec><sec><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12916-025-04205-9.</p></sec></abstract><kwd-group xml:lang="en"><title>Keywords</title><kwd>Sj&#x000f6;gren&#x02019;s syndrome</kwd><kwd>Mendelian randomization</kwd><kwd>Magnetic resonance imaging</kwd></kwd-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>National Natural Science Foundation of China</institution></funding-source><award-id>82271816, X.W</award-id></award-group></funding-group><custom-meta-group><custom-meta><meta-name>issue-copyright-statement</meta-name><meta-value>&#x000a9; BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2025</meta-value></custom-meta></custom-meta-group></article-meta></front><body><sec id="Sec1"><title>Background</title><p id="Par29">Sj&#x000f6;gren&#x02019;s syndrome (SS) is a common systemic autoimmune disease characterized primarily by symptoms of dryness in the mouth and eyes, accompanied by lymphocytic infiltration of exocrine glands and the presence of anti-SSA and anti-SSB antibodies [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>]. It exhibits a broad spectrum of clinical manifestations, approximately 20% of patients with pSS experience neurological involvement [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>]. The neurological damage caused by pSS can be primarily classified into central nervous system (CNS) and peripheral nervous system (PNS) involvement. The clinical manifestations of PNS damage are diverse, including sensory ataxia, pure sensory neuropathy, sensory ganglionopathy, multiple cranial neuropathies, trigeminal neuropathy, mononeuritis multiplex, autonomic neuropathy, and radiculopathy [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>]. On the other hand, CNS involvement is primarily characterized by symptoms such as headaches, myelitis, neuromyelitis optica, seizures, central demyelination-like changes, aseptic meningitis, and cognitive and psychological disorders. Cognitive dysfunction and psychological disorders are closely related to cortical regions of the brain [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>]. Overall, the nervous system manifestations are diverse, varying among patients, with the underlying mechanism remaining unknown.
</p><p id="Par30">Previous studies have found that patients with major depressive disorder exhibit reduced volume in the prefrontal cortex, particularly in the orbitofrontal cortex. Additionally, during facial expression recognition tasks, increased activity has been observed in brain regions such as the medial prefrontal cortex, caudate nucleus, precuneus, and lingual gyrus [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>]. In another study, reduced cortical thickness in the left premotor cortex of patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) was identified as a potential predictor of antidepressant treatment efficacy. Song et al. investigated the patterns of cortical atrophy in patients with Parkinson&#x02019;s disease and their relationship with cognitive status, revealing a close connection between cortical structures and cognition [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>]. All these research highlights the potential value of cortical characteristics (thickness, surface area, and curvature) in the treatment of depression, suggesting the important role of cortical structures in psychological disorders [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>]. Observational studies have indicated that patients with SS exhibit changes in cortical structures [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>]; however, whether these changes are directly caused by SS remains unclear.</p><p id="Par31">Mendelian randomization (MR) is a modern epidemiological approach that uses genome-wide association study (GWAS) data and employs single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) as instrumental variables (IVs) to identify causal relationships [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>]. The key principle of MR is that genetic variations, such as SNPs, are randomly assigned at conception, similar to the randomization in controlled trials, ensuring that these variations are independent of environmental factors and behaviors [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>]. This randomness allows MR to establish a one-way causal link, where genetic variations can affect disease risk, but not vice versa [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>]. Ideally, the selected genetic variants are only associated with the specific exposure of interest and not confounded by other factors, enabling clear interpretation of their impact on outcomes.</p><p id="Par32">In this study, using large-scale genome-wide association study (GWAS) data, we performed a two-sample MR analysis to appraise the causal effects of SS (the exposure) on cortical structures (the outcome), defined as MRI-derived morphometric indicators of cortical thickness and cortical surface area. Simultaneously, brain MRI of a group of SS patients were performed and assessed to validate the results. Multiomic analyses, including transcriptomic imputation [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>] and cell-type enrichment analysis [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>], were used to describe the biological underpinnings of SS-cortical surface area associations (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>).<fig id="Fig1"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;1</label><caption><p>Study overview. This flowchart presents a study investigating the impact of Sj&#x000f6;gren&#x02019;s syndrome (SS) on brain structure, with a focus on cortical changes. The research begins with a two-sample MR analysis to identify brain structural changes associated with SS, followed by MRI data from SS patients and controls to validate cortical surface area changes. TWAS and cell-type enrichment analyses identify key genes (e.g., PRTFDC1) and excitatory glutamatergic cells as significant factors. The findings suggest that SS may lead to cortical structural alterations, providing insights for research on SS-related brain pathology</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4205_Fig1_HTML" id="MO1"/></fig></p></sec><sec id="Sec2"><title>Methods</title><sec id="Sec3"><title>Data sources</title><p id="Par33">Summary data for SS was accessible through FinnGen [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>] (<ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://www.finngen.fi/en/">https://www.finngen.fi/en/</ext-link>) which encompassed 416,757 samples (comprising 2495 cases and 414,262 controls). A total of 16,383,308 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were genotyped. Patients with SS are classified based on the following diagnostic codes: ICD-10 code M35.0, ICD-9 code 7102, or ICD-8 code 73,490, with a predominant reliance on the ICD-10 code for classification. The GWAS data for cortical surface area and cortical thickness are derived from the ENIGMA Consortium [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>]. Cortical thickness and surface area data included a total of 51,665 individuals from 60 cohorts worldwide. The Desikan-Killiany [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR21">21</xref>] cortical atlas was utilized to define 34 brain regions and the entire cortex, with estimates being weighted based on the entire brain.</p></sec><sec id="Sec4"><title>Genetic instruments</title><p id="Par34">We applied a series of methods to filter out valid single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that adhere to the three core Mendelian randomization (MR) assumptions. At the outset, we chose independent SNPs that exhibited strong linkage to various single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). SNPs with a <italic>P</italic> value&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;5&#x02009;&#x000d7;&#x02009;10<sup>&#x02212;8</sup> were considered to be significantly associated with the trait of interest (ss), guiding the selection of instrumental variables [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR22">22</xref>]. Secondly, we employed the clumping process to assess the linkage disequilibrium (LD) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>] among the SNPs (<italic>r</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001 and clumping distance&#x02009;=&#x02009;10,000 kb). Palindromic SNPs that have the potential to cause strand ambiguity are also excluded from the analysis. Additionally, we conducted a search for SNPs already obtained through PhenoScanner V2 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>] (<ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="http://www.phenoscanner.medschl.cam.ac.uk/">http://www.phenoscanner.medschl.cam.ac.uk/</ext-link>) to identify potential confounders and variables (e.g., all neurological and psychiatric disorders, fluid intelligence, obesity, hypoxemia) that could potentially influence the association between ss and e brain cortical structure. To ensure the robustness of the selected SNPs, we additionally calculated the <italic>F</italic> statistic [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>], considering an <italic>F</italic> statistic of 10 as sufficiently strong to mitigate potential bias from weak instruments. The SNPs that passed the filtering criteria were utilized in the Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis. Detailed information on instrumental variables can be found in Additional Table&#x000a0;7.</p></sec><sec id="Sec5"><title>MR statistical analysis</title><p id="Par35">Three distinct methods of Mendelian randomization (MR), namely random-effects inverse-variance weighted (IVW) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR26">26</xref>], MR-Egger [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR27">27</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR28">28</xref>], and weighted median [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR29">29</xref>], were employed to address variant heterogeneity and the potential impact of pleiotropy. The inverse-variance weighted (IVW) method, due to its assumption that all instrumental variables are valid, is susceptible to the impact of instrumental variable pleiotropy and heterogeneity. Nevertheless, in the absence of these influences, IVW is considered to be the most accurate method, even in scenarios where other methods might not produce positive results. Thus, the result of MR analysis was mainly based on IVW. When the <italic>P</italic> value is less than 0.05, it indicates a causal relationship. The <italic>&#x003b2;</italic> value represents whether the exposure is a protective factor or a risk factor for the outcome. The <italic>&#x003b2;</italic> values from the three methods should be consistent. The SNPs related to brain cortical structure and any outliers identified through MR-PRESSO were excluded. MR-Egger permits all genetic variants to have pleiotropic effects but necessitates that these pleiotropic effects be independent of the variant-exposure association. Weighted median permits the use of potentially invalid instruments, assuming that at least half of the instruments employed in the MR analysis are valid. In the IVW analysis, the estimate was represented by the slope of the weighted regression of the SNP-outcome effects on the SNP-exposure effects, with the intercept constrained to zero. For significant estimates, we conducted additional assessments for horizontal pleiotropy using the MR-Egger intercept test and leave-one-out analyses. The Cochran&#x02019;s <italic>Q</italic> test was also employed to identify heterogeneity. A completed STROBE-MR checklist is provided in Additional file 2 to ensure comprehensive and transparent reporting of the Mendelian randomization study.</p></sec><sec id="Sec6"><title>Validation of brain structure computations in the queue</title><p id="Par36">In the Department of Rheumatology and Immunology at the First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, 21 patients diagnosed with SS were included based on the 2016 American College of Rheumatology (ACR) and European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) criteria. Healthy controls in this study were recruited from the Health Examination Center of the First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University between January 2023 and December 2024. Initially, 70 individuals were randomly selected from the health examination registry, matched to the patient group by sex and age (&#x000b1;&#x02009;2 years). Based on predefined exclusion criteria&#x02014;including a history of autoimmune diseases, primary or secondary neurological conditions, psychiatric disorders, cranial trauma or surgery, and contraindications to MRI&#x02014;15 individuals were excluded. From the remaining eligible candidates, 30 were further selected using a random number table and invited to undergo the same MRI protocol as the patient group. Ultimately, 23 healthy individuals completed MRI scanning and passed quality control procedures, and were therefore included in the final analysis. This two-stage random sampling process, combined with age and sex matching, was designed to minimize selection bias and enhance the comparability between the case and control groups.</p><p id="Par37">Processing the patient&#x02019;s T1-weighted images using FreeSurfer begins with running the recon-all command, which serves as the core processing workflow in FreeSurfer, automatically performing a series of data processing steps. The process starts with skull-stripping, where the scalp and other non-brain tissues, such as the skull, are removed to obtain a clear brain tissue image. Subsequently, FreeSurfer segments the brain into gray matter and white matter, distinguishing between different tissue types. Building on these segmentation results, the software then constructs cortical surface models and integrates the Desikan-Killiany cortical atlas for further refinement and labeling, thereby identifying various anatomical regions of the brain. After these processing steps, FreeSurfer generates various measurement metrics, including cortical thickness and brain volume. Ultimately, this comprehensive procedure yields data on the cortical surface area and cortical thickness in patients with SS, providing critical information for subsequent research and analysis. Subsequently, the results obtained from the Mendelian randomization analysis were statistically validated using a generalized linear model (GLM). In this model, R_entorhinal_surfavg was defined as the dependent variable, while disease status (sub), age (AGE), and sex (SEX) were included as covariates. By controlling for age and sex, this approach enabled an assessment of the independent association between Sj&#x000f6;gren&#x02019;s syndrome and the targeted brain region. More details are provided in Additional file 3.</p></sec><sec id="Sec7"><title>Transcriptome-wide association studies (TWAS)</title><p id="Par38">We employed the FUSION [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>] method to identify associations at the gene transcript level with ss and brain structure phenotypes. To perform transcriptome-wide association studies (TWAS), we integrated summary statistics from ss and global cortical thickness (GCT) genome-wide association studies (GWAS) with cortical RNA sequence reference panels from the Genotype-Tissue Expression Consortium [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR31">31</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec8"><title>Cell-type enrichment analyses</title><p id="Par39">We employed cell-type expression-specific integration for complex traits with default parameters to conduct cell-type enrichment analyses. This utilized alcohol-associated genome-wide association study (GWAS) data and single-cell RNA sequencing data from 120 cortical cell types (comprising 56 excitatory neurons, 54 inhibitory neurons, and 10 non-neuronal cells) sourced from the Allen Brain Institute [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR32">32</xref>].</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec9"><title>Results</title><sec id="Sec10"><title>MR analysis reveals the causal relationship between SS and cortical surface area</title><p id="Par40">The inverse-variance weighted (IVW) method [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR26">26</xref>] was used as the primary analytical tool for MR analysis to assess the potential causal relationships between SS and cortical structure in the brain. Two other methods including MR-Egger [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR27">27</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR28">28</xref>] and weighted median [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR29">29</xref>] were used to validate the outcome from IVW. Using the inverse-variance weighted (IVW) approach, SS was causally associated with a reduction in the cortical surface area of the fusiform gyrus (<italic>&#x003b2;</italic>&#x02009;= &#x02212;&#x02009;11.53 mm<sup>2</sup>, 95% CI&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;21.66 to&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;1.40, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.026), the entorhinal cortex (<italic>&#x003b2;</italic>&#x02009;= &#x02212;&#x02009;3.44 mm<sup>2</sup>, 95% CI&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;6.76 to&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;0.12, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.043), and the caudal anterior cingulate cortex (<italic>&#x003b2;</italic>&#x02009;= &#x02212;&#x02009;4.29 mm<sup>2</sup>, 95% CI&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;8.33 to&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;0.26, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.037), whereas no causal effect on cortical thickness was detected (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>A, Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref>). MR-Egger and weighted-median analyses yielded concordant directions for the entorhinal and caudal anterior cingulate regions, reinforcing the IVW findings; however, the MR-Egger slope for the fusiform gyrus was opposite in sign, indicating that the IVW fusiform result is likely invalid (Additional Table&#x000a0;1). In summary, SS is associated with reduced cortical surface area in the caudal anterior cingulate and entorhinal gyrus.<fig id="Fig2"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;2</label><caption><p>Mendelian randomization results. <bold>A</bold> The results using IVW as the method for Mendelian randomization analysis. <bold>B</bold>, <bold>C</bold> Leave-one-out analysis of SS on cortical structure. <bold>D</bold> The mean cortical surface area of the right caudal anterior cingulate gyrus in patients with SS and the control group</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4205_Fig2_HTML" id="MO2"/></fig><table-wrap id="Tab1"><label>Table 1</label><caption><p>Results of Mendelian randomization analysis</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left">Outcomes</th><th align="left">nSNPs</th><th align="left">Method</th><th align="left"><italic>&#x003b2;</italic> (95% CI)</th><th align="left">SE</th><th align="left"><italic>P</italic> value</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">Surface area of fusiform</td><td align="left">4</td><td align="left">IVW</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;11.53 (&#x02212;&#x02009;21.66 to&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;1.40)</td><td align="left">5.17</td><td align="left">0.0257</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Surface area of entorhinal</td><td align="left">4</td><td align="left">IVW</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;3.44 (&#x02212;&#x02009;6.76 to&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;0.12)</td><td align="left">1.70</td><td align="left">0.0425</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Surface area of caudal anterior cingulate</td><td align="left">4</td><td align="left">IVW</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;4.29 (&#x02212;&#x02009;8.33 to&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;0.26)</td><td align="left">2.06</td><td align="left">0.0370</td></tr></tbody></table></table-wrap></p></sec><sec id="Sec11"><title>Quality control in Mendelian randomization analysis demonstrates the accuracy and reliability of the results</title><p id="Par41">To investigate the presence of horizontal pleiotropy, this study employed intercept analysis using MR-Egger regression and the global test <italic>P</italic> value from MR-PRESSO (Mendelian Randomization Pleiotropy RESidual Sum and Outlier) to assess the pleiotropic effects of the instrumental variables (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref>). Quality-control tests showed no evidence of horizontal pleiotropy (MR-Egger intercept: entorhinal&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.55, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.551; caudal ACC&#x02009;=&#x02009;2.29, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.445; MR-PRESSO global <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;0.29 for both) and no between-instrument heterogeneity (Cochran&#x02019;s <italic>Q</italic>: entorhinal&#x02009;=&#x02009;4.02, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.134; caudal ACC&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.71, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.703). Additionally, the results from MR-PRESSO were consistent with the MR-Egger analysis, with <italic>P</italic> values for the entorhinal cortex and caudal anterior cingulate cortex both exceeding the 0.05 significance threshold, further confirming the absence of horizontal pleiotropy in this Mendelian randomization analysis. To assess whether there is heterogeneity among the IVs from different participant groups, which could potentially affect the reliability of the study results, this study employed Cochran&#x02019;s <italic>Q</italic> test for heterogeneity quantification. The entorhinal cortex (<italic>Q</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;4.0221, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.1339) and the caudal anterior cingulate cortex (<italic>Q</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.7062, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.7025), all <italic>P</italic> values were greater than 0.05, indicating no heterogeneity among the IVs and suggesting that the results were not affected by heterogeneity.
<table-wrap id="Tab2"><label>Table 2</label><caption><p>Heterogeneity and pleiotropy tests in MR</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left" rowspan="2">Outcomes</th><th align="left" colspan="2">Cochrane&#x02019;s <italic>Q</italic> test</th><th align="left" colspan="2">MR-Egger intercept test</th><th align="left">MR-PRESSO</th></tr><tr><th align="left"><italic>Q</italic> value</th><th align="left">PQ</th><th align="left">Intercept</th><th align="left">Pintercept</th><th align="left">Global test <italic>P</italic></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">Surface area of entorhinal</td><td align="left">4.0221</td><td align="left">0.1339</td><td align="left">1.5538</td><td align="left">0.5506</td><td align="left">0.2979</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Surface area of caudal anterior cingulate</td><td align="left">0.7062</td><td align="left">0.7025</td><td align="left">2.2919</td><td align="left">0.4446</td><td align="left">0.6214</td></tr></tbody></table></table-wrap></p><p id="Par42">In this study, sensitivity analysis was conducted using the leave-one-out method. Leave-one-out sensitivity plots (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>B, <xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">C</xref>) demonstrated that exclusion of any single SNP did not materially alter the causal estimates, confirming the robustness of our results. This indicates that the removal of any single SNP has a minimal impact on the overall result, and no individual IV acts as an outlier with a significant effect on the causal effect estimate. Therefore, it can be concluded that the results obtained from MR in this study demonstrate high robustness.</p></sec><sec id="Sec12"><title>Clinical cohort validation of Mendelian randomization results</title><p id="Par43">To validate the aforementioned Mendelian randomization results, we randomly selected MRI data from 21 treatment-na&#x000ef;ve patients with SS and 23 controls for verification. Demographic and clinical features of these patients were shown in Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab3" ref-type="table">3</xref>. In this study, &#x0201c;xerophthalmia&#x0201d; and &#x0201c;xerostomia&#x0201d; refer solely to patient-reported symptoms of dry eyes and dry mouth. Table <xref rid="Tab4" ref-type="table">4</xref> presents the validation results for the caudal anterior cingulate gyrus and entorhinal gyrus. The mean cortical surface area of the left caudal anterior cingulate gyrus (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>D) in the control group was 585.3 (SD&#x02009;=&#x02009;107.8), compared to 577.1 (SD&#x02009;=&#x02009;137.7) in the SS group, with no significant difference (<italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.850). The mean cortical surface area of the right caudal anterior cingulate gyrus was 740.6 (SD&#x02009;=&#x02009;128.9) in the control group and 652.8 (SD&#x02009;=&#x02009;103.8) in the SS group, showing a significant difference (<italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.0384). The mean cortical surface area of the left entorhinal gyrus was 433.0 (SD&#x02009;=&#x02009;136.6) in the control group and 379.2 (SD&#x02009;=&#x02009;66.9) in the SS group, with no significant difference (<italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.2713). The mean cortical surface area of the right entorhinal gyrus was 382.7 (SD&#x02009;=&#x02009;72.5) in the control group and 376.4 (SD&#x02009;=&#x02009;88.1) in the SS group, with no significant difference (<italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.574). This table indicates that, compared to the control group, the SS group exhibited a significant reduction in the surface area of the right caudal anterior cingulate gyrus, while the differences in the surface areas of the left caudal anterior cingulate gyrus and the entorhinal gyrus (both left and right) were not significant. Compared to the control group, SS patients have a significantly reduced surface area in the right caudal anterior cingulate gyrus, consistent with the Mendelian randomization results. However, the surface area differences in the left caudal anterior cingulate gyrus and the entorhinal gyrus on both sides are not significant, which is inconsistent with the Mendelian randomization findings.
<table-wrap id="Tab3"><label>Table 3</label><caption><p>Demographic and clinical characteristics of the validation cohort</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left">Features</th><th align="left">Controls (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;23)</th><th align="left">SS (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;21)</th><th align="left"><italic>P</italic></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">Average age (years)</td><td align="left">49.1&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.9</td><td align="left">50.5&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.9</td><td align="left">0.673</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Gender (male/female)</td><td align="left">7/16</td><td align="left">3/18</td><td align="left">0.202</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Education (years)</td><td align="left">10.31&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;4.0</td><td align="left">11.23&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;4.2</td><td align="left">0.309</td></tr><tr><td align="left">BMI (kg/m<sup>2</sup>)</td><td align="left">23.1&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;2.9</td><td align="left">23.5&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;3.2</td><td align="left">0.754</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Xerophthalmia, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">12 (70.6%)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Xerostomia, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">8 (50.0%)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Anti-Ro/SSA positive, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">18 (85.7%)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Anti-La/SSB positive, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">10 (50.0%)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td></tr><tr><td align="left">ANA, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">12 (70.6%)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td></tr><tr><td align="left">IgG (&#x02265;&#x02009;17 g/L), <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">9 (42.9%)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Lymphocytic infiltration foci (&#x02265;&#x02009;1), <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">16 (94.1%)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td></tr><tr><td align="left">ESSPRI</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">3.7&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.9</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">HADS-A</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">5.4&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;2.7</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">HADS-D</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">4.2&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;3.7</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">PSQI</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">6.0&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;2.3</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">FSS</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">3.4&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;1.8</td><td align="left"/></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p><italic>ANA</italic> antinuclear antibodies, <italic>Ig</italic> immunoglobulin, <italic>ESSPRI</italic> EULAR Sj&#x000f6;gren&#x02019;s Syndrome Patient Reported Index, <italic>HADS-A</italic> Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale&#x02014;Anxiety, <italic>HADS-D</italic> Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale&#x02014;Depression, <italic>PSQI</italic> Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, <italic>FSS</italic>&#x000a0;Fatigue Severity Scale</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap><table-wrap id="Tab4"><label>Table 4</label><caption><p>Validation results of the clinical cohort</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left" rowspan="2"/><th align="left" colspan="2">Controls (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;23)</th><th align="left" colspan="2">SS (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;21)</th><th align="left" rowspan="2"><italic>F</italic></th><th align="left" rowspan="2"><italic>P</italic> value</th></tr><tr><th align="left">Mean</th><th align="left">SD</th><th align="left">Mean</th><th align="left">SD</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">L_caudalanteriorcingulate</td><td align="left">585.3</td><td align="left">107.8</td><td align="left">577.1</td><td align="left">137.7</td><td align="left">1.16</td><td align="left">0.850</td></tr><tr><td align="left">L_entorhinal</td><td align="left">433.0</td><td align="left">136.6</td><td align="left">379.2</td><td align="left">66.9</td><td align="left">3.17</td><td align="left">0.2713</td></tr><tr><td align="left">R_caudalanteriorcingulate</td><td align="left">740.6</td><td align="left">128.9</td><td align="left">652.8</td><td align="left">103.8</td><td align="left">2.41</td><td align="left">0.0384*</td></tr><tr><td align="left">R_entorhinal</td><td align="left">382.7</td><td align="left">72.5</td><td align="left">376.4</td><td align="left">88.1</td><td align="left">4.79</td><td align="left">0.574</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p><sup>*</sup><italic>P</italic>&#x0003c;0.05 (statistically significant)</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p></sec><sec id="Sec13"><title>Transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS) identified potential pathogenic genes</title><p id="Par44">Transcriptome-wide association studies (TWAS) are an effective method that integrates gene expression data to enhance genome-wide association studies (GWAS) analysis, enabling the identification of genes associated with specific traits. We conducted a TWAS for SS and cortical surface area using cortical transcriptome expression data. When the FDR threshold was set at 0.05, the genes identified in association with SS were predominantly located within the MHC region (48 out of 54 genes), highlighting the critical role of MHC in the pathogenesis of SS (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig3" ref-type="fig">3</xref>A). For the caudal anterior cingulate gyrus, only one gene, PRTFDC1, was identified (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig3" ref-type="fig">3</xref>B). Identifying genes associated with SS and cortical surface area through TWAS is of significant value for guiding future experimental research. All TWAS results for the caudal SS and anterior cingulate gyrus can be found in Additional Tables <xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref> and <xref rid="Tab3" ref-type="table">3</xref>.<fig id="Fig3"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;3</label><caption><p>Downstream analysis of brain structural changes caused by SS. Transcriptome-wide association studies of the SS (<bold>A</bold>) and the caudal anterior cingulate gyrus (<bold>B</bold>). Cell-type enrichment analyses of SS (<bold>C</bold>), SLE (<bold>D</bold>), and RA (<bold>E</bold>)</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4205_Fig3_HTML" id="MO3"/></fig></p></sec><sec id="Sec14"><title>Cell-type enrichment analysis-associated glutamatergic cortical neurons with Sj&#x000f6;gren syndrome</title><p id="Par45">To identify potential pathogenic cell populations, we further used the CELLECT tool to integrate GWAS and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig3" ref-type="fig">3</xref>C&#x02013;E, Additional Tables 4&#x02013;6). We identified 11 nominally significant associations linking cell types to SS. Of these, 10 belonged to the excitatory glutamatergic cell category, and the remaining one was classified as an inhibitory GABAergic cell. We also conducted cell-type enrichment analyses for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Consistent with findings in SS, the cell types primarily associated with SLE were excitatory glutamatergic cells, with three cell types being completely consistent. However, in RA, the associated cell types were nearly evenly distributed among excitatory glutamatergic cells, inhibitory GABAergic cells, and non-neuronal cells, with no overlapping cell types when compared to SLE and SS. This suggests that the mechanisms underlying neurological involvement in SLE and SS may overlap.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec15"><title>Discussion</title><p id="Par46">With many reported nervous system involvement observations, this study first demonstrates a significant genetic causal link between SS and cortical structure alterations, particularly affecting the entorhinal cortex and caudal anterior cingulate gyrus. A generalized linear regression analysis, controlling for sex and age, on a cohort of 21 SS patients and 23 controls further confirmed a reduction in the surface area of the right caudal anterior cingulate gyrus, suggesting the syndrome&#x02019;s potential contribution to cortical changes. Nevertheless, our study revealed discrepancies between the clinical data and the Mendelian randomization results. These inconsistencies may arise from differences in ancestry or the scale and heterogeneity of the populations in the GWAS dataset compared with our clinical cohort, along with variations in sample size, statistical power, and environmental factors. In addition, the inherently high heterogeneity of SS may also contribute to these observed discrepancies.</p><p id="Par47">The caudal anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), as part of the cerebral cortex, is crucial for emotional regulation, pain perception, cognitive control, and social behavior [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR33">33</xref>]. Dysfunction in this region is linked to various neurological and psychiatric disorders, including depression, anxiety, schizophrenia, and chronic pain. In depression, the caudal ACC shows reduced activity and gray matter volume, which correlates with symptom severity and emotional regulation deficits [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR34">34</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR35">35</xref>]. Similarly, schizophrenia is associated with abnormal activation and reduced gray matter in this area, affecting cognitive control [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR36">36</xref>]. These findings suggest that alterations in the caudal ACC in SS patients may contribute to their neuropsychiatric symptoms.</p><p id="Par48">To further investigate the biological mechanisms underlying cortical structural changes in SS, we conducted a multi-omics study using TWAS [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR37">37</xref>], which can reveal connections between specific gene expression patterns and disease mechanisms. TWAS enables the identification of gene expression patterns linked to disease mechanisms. In this study, we examined cortical transcriptomic expression data; we found most genes associated with SS were located in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region (48 out of 54 genes). For the caudal anterior cingulate gyrus, only the PRTFDC1 gene was identified. Recent investigations indicate that the PRTFDC1 gene possesses significant regulatory potential in purine nucleotide metabolism and energy provision. The protein it encodes contains a phosphoribosyltransferase domain, potentially participating in key catalytic steps of both the de novo and salvage pathways of purine synthesis [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR38">38</xref>]. Given the close link between purine metabolism and processes such as neurotransmitter regulation (e.g., adenosine, ATP) and neuroinflammation, PRTFDC1 may influence neuronal energy supply, synaptic plasticity, and glial cell activation within the central nervous system. Emerging evidence suggests that aberrant expression of this gene may be implicated in neurodegenerative changes or autoimmune-mediated neural damage, and could further affect cortical structural alterations through immune dysregulation. These findings highlight the relevance of TWAS in identifying genes associated with SS and cortical alterations, offering valuable insights for future experimental research to further clarify these molecular mechanisms.</p><p id="Par49">Integrating single-cell sequencing data with GWAS can help identify pathogenic cell types linked to SS. We found nominally significant associations with 11 cell types, 10 of which involved excitatory glutamatergic neurons and one with inhibitory GABAergic neurons. As the primary excitatory neurons in the brain, glutamatergic neurons regulate neurotransmission via receptors like NMDA, AMPA, and kainate. These receptors are critical for processes such as learning, memory, neural development, and synaptic plasticity [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR39">39</xref>]. However, overactivation of glutamate receptors, leading to excitotoxicity, has been implicated in neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer&#x02019;s and Parkinson&#x02019;s [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR40">40</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR41">41</xref>]. This excitotoxicity, characterized by sustained glutamate stimulation and intracellular calcium overload, may contribute to the cortical alterations and neurological symptoms observed in SS.</p><p id="Par50">By integrating observational research with Mendelian randomization (MR), the study mitigates common issues in observational studies, such as confounding factors and reverse causation, while reducing false negatives in two-sample MR analyses. Consistent results across multiple MR methods and sensitivity analyses, coupled with the use of GWAS data from populations of European ancestry, enhance the reliability of the findings and reduce the risk of population stratification or ethnic bias, underscoring the study&#x02019;s rigor and robustness. Nevertheless, this study has several limitations. First, as it relies on summary-level data, it is challenging to conduct stratified analyses to control for potential confounding factors. Second, the GWAS data used in this study are derived exclusively from European populations; while this helps mitigate the impact of population stratification in Mendelian randomization analyses, the causal inferences drawn may not be generalizable to other ethnic groups, such as Asian populations. Third, the study assumes a linear relationship between exposure and outcome, without accounting for potential nonlinear associations. Additionally, the relatively small sample size of the GWAS dataset may further exacerbate uncertainties and biases in causal inference. The absence of multiple comparison correction also increases the risk of false positives. However, as long as the selected SNPs satisfy the three core instrumental variable assumptions, the conclusions derived from Mendelian randomization remain methodologically robust and are further supported by validation using clinical data, thereby enhancing the overall credibility of the findings.</p></sec><sec id="Sec16"><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par51">This study establishes SS as a contributor to cortical structural changes, particularly a reduction in the surface area of the right caudal anterior cingulate gyrus. Mendelian randomization confirmed a negative genetic link between SS and the entorhinal cortex and caudal anterior cingulate, while MRI validated these findings. The identification of genes in the MHC region and PRTFDC1, along with the involvement of excitatory glutamatergic neurons, provides insights into the mechanisms behind SS&#x02019;s impact on brain structure, emphasizing the need for further research into its neurological effects.</p></sec><sec id="Sec118" sec-type="supplementary-material"><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>
<supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM1"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4205_MOESM1_ESM.docx"><caption><p> Additional file 1: Table&#x000a0;1 MR of Sj&#x000f6;gren syndrome on cortical thickness and surface area. Table 2 TWAS of Sj&#x000f6;gren syndrome in cortical reference panels. Table 3 TWAS of anterior cingulate gyrus in cortical reference panels. Table 4 CELLECT s-LDSC cell-type enrichment analysis for SS. Table 5 CELLECT s-LDSC cell-type enrichment analysis for SLE. Table 6 CELLECT s-LDSC cell-type enrichment analysis for RA. Table 7 Sj&#x000f6;gren syndrome instrument SNPs.</p></caption></media></supplementary-material><supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM2"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4205_MOESM2_ESM.docx"><caption><p> Additional file 2: STROBE-MR.</p></caption></media></supplementary-material><supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM3"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4205_MOESM3_ESM.xlsx"><caption><p> Additional file 3: MRI reporting guidelines.</p></caption></media></supplementary-material></p></sec></body><back><glossary><title>Abbreviations</title><def-list><def-item><term>SS</term><def><p id="Par5">Sj&#x000f6;gren&#x02019;s syndrome</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MR</term><def><p id="Par6">Mendelian randomization</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>SNPs</term><def><p id="Par7">Single-nucleotide polymorphisms</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>GWAS</term><def><p id="Par8">Genome-wide association studies</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>IVW</term><def><p id="Par9">Inverse-variance weighted</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>WM</term><def><p id="Par10">Weighted median</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MRI</term><def><p id="Par11">Magnetic resonance imaging</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>TWAS</term><def><p id="Par12">Transcriptome-wide association studies</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>eQTLs</term><def><p id="Par13">Expression quantitative trait loci</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MR-PRESSO</term><def><p id="Par14">Mendelian Randomization Pleiotropy RESidual Sum and Outlier</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>scRNA-seq</term><def><p id="Par15">Single-cell RNA sequencing</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MHC</term><def><p id="Par16">Major histocompatibility complex</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CNS</term><def><p id="Par17">Central nervous system</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PNS</term><def><p id="Par18">Peripheral nervous system</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MDD</term><def><p id="Par19">Major depressive disorder</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>IVs</term><def><p id="Par20">Instrumental variables</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>LD</term><def><p id="Par21">Linkage disequilibrium</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ACR</term><def><p id="Par22">American College of Rheumatology</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>EULAR</term><def><p id="Par23">European League Against Rheumatism</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>GLM</term><def><p id="Par24">Generalized linear model</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>GCT</term><def><p id="Par25">Global cortical thickness</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>SLE</term><def><p id="Par26">Systemic lupus erythematosus</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>RA</term><def><p id="Par27">Rheumatoid arthritis</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ACC</term><def><p id="Par28">Anterior cingulate cortex</p></def></def-item></def-list></glossary><fn-group><fn><p><bold>Publisher&#x02019;s Note</bold></p><p>Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.</p></fn><fn><p>Ping Wang, Yunpeng Tai, and Xiaofang Zhu contributed equally to this work.</p></fn></fn-group><ack><title>Acknowledgements</title><p>None.</p></ack><notes notes-type="author-contribution"><title>Authors&#x02019; contributions</title><p>P W: Writing-original draft, Data curation. YP T: Writing-original draft, Data curation. XF Z: Validation, Methodology. HC: JJ W: Validation, Methodology. JW H: Y Z: Investigation. XB W: Writing-review &#x00026; Editing, Supervision, Funding acquisition, Conceptualization. All authors read and approved of the final manuscript.</p></notes><notes notes-type="funding-information"><title>Funding</title><p>This work is supported by the Project of the National Key R&#x00026;D Program of China (2024YFC2510306 and 2024YFC2510300), Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 82271816), and the Clinical Research Project of the Shanghai Municipal Health Commission (202440161).</p></notes><notes notes-type="data-availability"><title>Data availability</title><p>No datasets were generated or analysed during the current study.</p></notes><notes><title>Declarations</title><notes id="FPar1"><title>Ethics approval and consent to participate</title><p id="Par52">This study was approved by the Ethical Committee of the First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University (approval #16,024) and written informed consent was received from all participants for their enrollment.</p></notes><notes id="FPar2"><title>Consent for publication</title><p id="Par53">Not applicable.</p></notes><notes id="FPar3" notes-type="COI-statement"><title>Competing interests</title><p id="Par54">The authors declare no competing interests.</p></notes></notes><ref-list id="Bib1"><title>References</title><ref id="CR1"><label>1.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR1" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Brito-Zeron</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Baldini</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Bootsma</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Bowman</surname><given-names>SJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Jonsson</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Mariette</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Sivils</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Theander</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Tzioufas</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Ramos-Casals</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Sjogren syndrome</article-title><source>In: Nat Rev Dis Primers</source><year>2016</year><volume>2</volume><fpage>16047</fpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR1" publication-type="journal">Brito-Zeron P, Baldini C, Bootsma H, Bowman SJ, Jonsson R, Mariette X, Sivils K, Theander E, Tzioufas A, Ramos-Casals M. Sjogren syndrome. In: Nat Rev Dis Primers. 2016;2:16047.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR2"><label>2.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR2" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Vivino</surname><given-names>FB</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Sjogren&#x02019;s syndrome: clinical aspects</article-title><source>Clin Immunol</source><year>2017</year><volume>182</volume><fpage>48</fpage><lpage>54</lpage><?supplied-pmid 28428095?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28428095</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR2" publication-type="journal">Vivino FB. Sjogren&#x02019;s syndrome: clinical aspects. Clin Immunol. 2017;182:48&#x02013;54.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28428095</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR3"><label>3.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR3" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Fauchais</surname><given-names>A-L</given-names></name><name><surname>Magy</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Vidal</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Central and peripheral neurological complications of primary Sj&#x000f6;gren&#x02019;s syndrome</article-title><source>La Presse M&#x000e9;dicale</source><year>2012</year><volume>41</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>e485</fpage><lpage>e493</lpage><?supplied-pmid 22840992?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22840992</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR3" publication-type="journal">Fauchais A-L, Magy L, Vidal E. Central and peripheral neurological complications of primary Sj&#x000f6;gren&#x02019;s syndrome. La Presse M&#x000e9;dicale. 2012;41(9):e485&#x02013;93.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22840992</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR4"><label>4.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR4" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Delalande</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>de Seze</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Fauchais</surname><given-names>AL</given-names></name><name><surname>Hachulla</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Stojkovic</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Ferriby</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Dubucquoi</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Pruvo</surname><given-names>JP</given-names></name><name><surname>Vermersch</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Hatron</surname><given-names>PY</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Neurologic manifestations in primary Sjogren syndrome: a study of 82 patients</article-title><source>Medicine (Baltimore)</source><year>2004</year><volume>83</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>280</fpage><lpage>291</lpage><?supplied-pmid 15342972?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15342972</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR4" publication-type="journal">Delalande S, de Seze J, Fauchais AL, Hachulla E, Stojkovic T, Ferriby D, Dubucquoi S, Pruvo JP, Vermersch P, Hatron PY. Neurologic manifestations in primary Sjogren syndrome: a study of 82 patients. Medicine (Baltimore). 2004;83(5):280&#x02013;91.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15342972</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR5"><label>5.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR5" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Konak</surname><given-names>HE</given-names></name><name><surname>Gok</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Armagan</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Guven</surname><given-names>SC</given-names></name><name><surname>Atalar</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Apaydin</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Maras</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Erten</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Neurological involvement in patients with primary Sjogren&#x02019;s syndrome: a retrospective cross-sectional study</article-title><source>Ann Indian Acad Neurol</source><year>2023</year><volume>26</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>424</fpage><lpage>430</lpage><?supplied-pmid 37970299?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37970299</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR5" publication-type="journal">Konak HE, Gok K, Armagan B, Guven SC, Atalar E, Apaydin H, Maras Y, Erten S. Neurological involvement in patients with primary Sjogren&#x02019;s syndrome: a retrospective cross-sectional study. Ann Indian Acad Neurol. 2023;26(4):424&#x02013;30.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37970299</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR6"><label>6.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR6" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Pereira</surname><given-names>PR</given-names></name><name><surname>Viala</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Maisonobe</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Haroche</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Mathian</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Hie</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Amoura</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Cohen Aubart</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Sjogren sensory neuronopathy (Sjogren ganglionopathy): long-term outcome and treatment response in a series of 13 cases</article-title><source>Medicine (Baltimore)</source><year>2016</year><volume>95</volume><issue>19</issue><fpage>e3632</fpage><?supplied-pmid 27175675?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27175675</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR6" publication-type="journal">Pereira PR, Viala K, Maisonobe T, Haroche J, Mathian A, Hie M, Amoura Z, Cohen Aubart F. Sjogren sensory neuronopathy (Sjogren ganglionopathy): long-term outcome and treatment response in a series of 13 cases. Medicine (Baltimore). 2016;95(19):e3632.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27175675</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR7"><label>7.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR7" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Mori</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Iijima</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Koike</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Hattori</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Tanaka</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Watanabe</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Katsuno</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Fujita</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Aiba</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Ogata</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The wide spectrum of clinical manifestations in Sjogren&#x02019;s syndrome-associated neuropathy</article-title><source>Brain</source><year>2005</year><volume>128</volume><issue>Pt 11</issue><fpage>2518</fpage><lpage>2534</lpage><?supplied-pmid 16049042?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">16049042</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR7" publication-type="journal">Mori K, Iijima M, Koike H, Hattori N, Tanaka F, Watanabe H, Katsuno M, Fujita A, Aiba I, Ogata A, et al. The wide spectrum of clinical manifestations in Sjogren&#x02019;s syndrome-associated neuropathy. Brain. 2005;128(Pt 11):2518&#x02013;34.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">16049042</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR8"><label>8.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR8" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Scheuerecker</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Meisenzahl</surname><given-names>EM</given-names></name><name><surname>Koutsouleris</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Roesner</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Schopf</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Linn</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Wiesmann</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Bruckmann</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Moller</surname><given-names>HJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Frodl</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Orbitofrontal volume reductions during emotion recognition in patients with major depression</article-title><source>J Psychiatry Neurosci</source><year>2010</year><volume>35</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>311</fpage><lpage>320</lpage><?supplied-pmid 20569645?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20569645</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR8" publication-type="journal">Scheuerecker J, Meisenzahl EM, Koutsouleris N, Roesner M, Schopf V, Linn J, Wiesmann M, Bruckmann H, Moller HJ, Frodl T. Orbitofrontal volume reductions during emotion recognition in patients with major depression. J Psychiatry Neurosci. 2010;35(5):311&#x02013;20.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20569645</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR9"><label>9.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR9" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sacher</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Neumann</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Funfstuck</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Soliman</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Villringer</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Schroeter</surname><given-names>ML</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Mapping the depressed brain: a meta-analysis of structural and functional alterations in major depressive disorder</article-title><source>J Affect Disord</source><year>2012</year><volume>140</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>142</fpage><lpage>148</lpage><?supplied-pmid 21890211?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21890211</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR9" publication-type="journal">Sacher J, Neumann J, Funfstuck T, Soliman A, Villringer A, Schroeter ML. Mapping the depressed brain: a meta-analysis of structural and functional alterations in major depressive disorder. J Affect Disord. 2012;140(2):142&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21890211</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR10"><label>10.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR10" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Song</surname><given-names>SK</given-names></name><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>JE</given-names></name><name><surname>Park</surname><given-names>HJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Sohn</surname><given-names>YH</given-names></name><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>JD</given-names></name><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>PH</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The pattern of cortical atrophy in patients with Parkinson&#x02019;s disease according to cognitive status</article-title><source>Mov Disord</source><year>2011</year><volume>26</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>289</fpage><lpage>296</lpage><?supplied-pmid 21370255?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21370255</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR10" publication-type="journal">Song SK, Lee JE, Park HJ, Sohn YH, Lee JD, Lee PH. The pattern of cortical atrophy in patients with Parkinson&#x02019;s disease according to cognitive status. Mov Disord. 2011;26(2):289&#x02013;96.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21370255</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR11"><label>11.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR11" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Hou</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Yin</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Xie</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Yuan</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Decreased cortical thickness of left premotor cortex as a treatment predictor in major depressive disorder</article-title><source>Brain Imaging Behav</source><year>2021</year><volume>15</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>1420</fpage><lpage>1426</lpage><?supplied-pmid 32710337?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32710337</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR11" publication-type="journal">Liu X, Hou Z, Yin Y, Xie C, Zhang H, Zhang H, Zhang Z, Yuan Y. Decreased cortical thickness of left premotor cortex as a treatment predictor in major depressive disorder. Brain Imaging Behav. 2021;15(3):1420&#x02013;6.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32710337</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR12"><label>12.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR12" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Modis</surname><given-names>LV</given-names></name><name><surname>Aradi</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Horvath</surname><given-names>IF</given-names></name><name><surname>Bencze</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Papp</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Emri</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Berenyi</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Bugan</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Szanto</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Central nervous system involvement in primary Sjogren&#x02019;s syndrome: narrative review of MRI findings</article-title><source>Diagnostics (Basel)</source><year>2022</year><volume>13</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>14</fpage><?supplied-pmid 36611306?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36611306</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR12" publication-type="journal">Modis LV, Aradi Z, Horvath IF, Bencze J, Papp T, Emri M, Berenyi E, Bugan A, Szanto A. Central nervous system involvement in primary Sjogren&#x02019;s syndrome: narrative review of MRI findings. Diagnostics (Basel). 2022;13(1):14.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36611306</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR13"><label>13.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR13" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Emdin</surname><given-names>CA</given-names></name><name><surname>Khera</surname><given-names>AV</given-names></name><name><surname>Kathiresan</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Mendelian randomization</article-title><source>JAMA</source><year>2017</year><volume>318</volume><issue>19</issue><fpage>1925</fpage><lpage>1926</lpage><?supplied-pmid 29164242?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29164242</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR13" publication-type="journal">Emdin CA, Khera AV, Kathiresan S. Mendelian randomization. JAMA. 2017;318(19):1925&#x02013;6.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29164242</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR14"><label>14.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR14" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Davies</surname><given-names>NM</given-names></name><name><surname>Howe</surname><given-names>LJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Brumpton</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Havdahl</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Evans</surname><given-names>DM</given-names></name><name><surname>Davey Smith</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Within family Mendelian randomization studies</article-title><source>Hum Mol Genet</source><year>2019</year><volume>28</volume><issue>R2</issue><fpage>R170</fpage><lpage>R179</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31647093?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31647093</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR14" publication-type="journal">Davies NM, Howe LJ, Brumpton B, Havdahl A, Evans DM, Davey Smith G. Within family Mendelian randomization studies. Hum Mol Genet. 2019;28(R2):R170&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31647093</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR15"><label>15.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR15" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Verduijn</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Siegerink</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Jager</surname><given-names>KJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Zoccali</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Dekker</surname><given-names>FW</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Mendelian randomization: use of genetics to enable causal inference in observational studies</article-title><source>Nephrol Dial Transplant</source><year>2010</year><volume>25</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>1394</fpage><lpage>1398</lpage><?supplied-pmid 20190244?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20190244</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR15" publication-type="journal">Verduijn M, Siegerink B, Jager KJ, Zoccali C, Dekker FW. Mendelian randomization: use of genetics to enable causal inference in observational studies. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2010;25(5):1394&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20190244</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR16"><label>16.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR16" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wainberg</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Sinnott-Armstrong</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Mancuso</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Barbeira</surname><given-names>AN</given-names></name><name><surname>Knowles</surname><given-names>DA</given-names></name><name><surname>Golan</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Ermel</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Ruusalepp</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Quertermous</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Hao</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Opportunities and challenges for transcriptome-wide association studies</article-title><source>Nat Genet</source><year>2019</year><volume>51</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>592</fpage><lpage>599</lpage><?supplied-pmid 30926968?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30926968</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR16" publication-type="journal">Wainberg M, Sinnott-Armstrong N, Mancuso N, Barbeira AN, Knowles DA, Golan D, Ermel R, Ruusalepp A, Quertermous T, Hao K, et al. Opportunities and challenges for transcriptome-wide association studies. Nat Genet. 2019;51(4):592&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30926968</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR17"><label>17.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR17" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Timshel</surname><given-names>PN</given-names></name><name><surname>Thompson</surname><given-names>JJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Pers</surname><given-names>TH</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Genetic mapping of etiologic brain cell types for obesity</article-title><source>Elife</source><year>2020</year><volume>9</volume><fpage>e55851</fpage><?supplied-pmid 32955435?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32955435</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR17" publication-type="journal">Timshel PN, Thompson JJ, Pers TH. Genetic mapping of etiologic brain cell types for obesity. Elife. 2020;9:e55851.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32955435</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR18"><label>18.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Kurki MI, Karjalainen J, Palta P, Sipila TP, Kristiansson K, Donner KM, Reeve MP, Laivuori H, Aavikko M, Kaunisto MA, et al.&#x000a0;FinnGen provides genetic insights from a well-phenotyped isolated population. Nature. 2023;613(7944):508&#x02013;518 Finnish Biobank Cooperative (FINBB).&#x000a0;(2023) Identifiers.org: <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://identifiers.org/finngen:release8">https://identifiers.org/finngen:release8</ext-link>.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR19"><label>19.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR19" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Grasby</surname><given-names>KL</given-names></name><name><surname>Jahanshad</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Painter</surname><given-names>JN</given-names></name><name><surname>Colodro-Conde</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Bralten</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Hibar</surname><given-names>DP</given-names></name><name><surname>Lind</surname><given-names>PA</given-names></name><name><surname>Pizzagalli</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Ching</surname><given-names>CRK</given-names></name><name><surname>McMahon</surname><given-names>MAB</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The genetic architecture of the human cerebral cortex</article-title><source>Science</source><year>2020</year><volume>367</volume><issue>6484</issue><fpage>eaay6690</fpage><?supplied-pmid 32193296?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32193296</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR19" publication-type="journal">Grasby KL, Jahanshad N, Painter JN, Colodro-Conde L, Bralten J, Hibar DP, Lind PA, Pizzagalli F, Ching CRK, McMahon MAB, et al. The genetic architecture of the human cerebral cortex. Science. 2020;367(6484):eaay6690.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32193296</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR20"><label>20.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR20" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Mackey</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Allgaier</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Chaarani</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Spechler</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Orr</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Bunn</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Allen</surname><given-names>NB</given-names></name><name><surname>Alia-Klein</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Batalla</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Blaine</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Mega-analysis of gray matter volume in substance dependence: general and substance-specific regional effects</article-title><source>Am J Psychiatry</source><year>2019</year><volume>176</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>119</fpage><lpage>128</lpage><?supplied-pmid 30336705?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30336705</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR20" publication-type="journal">Mackey S, Allgaier N, Chaarani B, Spechler P, Orr C, Bunn J, Allen NB, Alia-Klein N, Batalla A, Blaine S, et al. Mega-analysis of gray matter volume in substance dependence: general and substance-specific regional effects. Am J Psychiatry. 2019;176(2):119&#x02013;28.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30336705</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR21"><label>21.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR21" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>CH</given-names></name><name><surname>Fiecas</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Gutierrez</surname><given-names>ED</given-names></name><name><surname>Panizzon</surname><given-names>MS</given-names></name><name><surname>Eyler</surname><given-names>LT</given-names></name><name><surname>Vuoksimaa</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Thompson</surname><given-names>WK</given-names></name><name><surname>Fennema-Notestine</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Hagler</surname><given-names>DJ</given-names><suffix>Jr</suffix></name><name><surname>Jernigan</surname><given-names>TL</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Genetic topography of brain morphology</article-title><source>Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A</source><year>2013</year><volume>110</volume><issue>42</issue><fpage>17089</fpage><lpage>17094</lpage><?supplied-pmid 24082094?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24082094</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR21" publication-type="journal">Chen CH, Fiecas M, Gutierrez ED, Panizzon MS, Eyler LT, Vuoksimaa E, Thompson WK, Fennema-Notestine C, Hagler DJ Jr, Jernigan TL, et al. Genetic topography of brain morphology. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013;110(42):17089&#x02013;94.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24082094</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR22"><label>22.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR22" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Pierce</surname><given-names>BL</given-names></name><name><surname>Ahsan</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Vanderweele</surname><given-names>TJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Power and instrument strength requirements for Mendelian randomization studies using multiple genetic variants</article-title><source>Int J Epidemiol</source><year>2011</year><volume>40</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>740</fpage><lpage>752</lpage><?supplied-pmid 20813862?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20813862</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR22" publication-type="journal">Pierce BL, Ahsan H, Vanderweele TJ. Power and instrument strength requirements for Mendelian randomization studies using multiple genetic variants. Int J Epidemiol. 2011;40(3):740&#x02013;52.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20813862</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR23"><label>23.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR23" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ke</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Hunt</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Tapper</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Lawrence</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Stavrides</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Ghori</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Whittaker</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Collins</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Morris</surname><given-names>AP</given-names></name><name><surname>Bentley</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The impact of SNP density on fine-scale patterns of linkage disequilibrium</article-title><source>Hum Mol Genet</source><year>2004</year><volume>13</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>577</fpage><lpage>588</lpage><?supplied-pmid 14734624?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">14734624</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR23" publication-type="journal">Ke X, Hunt S, Tapper W, Lawrence R, Stavrides G, Ghori J, Whittaker P, Collins A, Morris AP, Bentley D, et al. The impact of SNP density on fine-scale patterns of linkage disequilibrium. Hum Mol Genet. 2004;13(6):577&#x02013;88.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">14734624</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR24"><label>24.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR24" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kamat</surname><given-names>MA</given-names></name><name><surname>Blackshaw</surname><given-names>JA</given-names></name><name><surname>Young</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Surendran</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Burgess</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Danesh</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Butterworth</surname><given-names>AS</given-names></name><name><surname>Staley</surname><given-names>JR</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>PhenoScanner V2: an expanded tool for searching human genotype-phenotype associations</article-title><source>Bioinformatics</source><year>2019</year><volume>35</volume><issue>22</issue><fpage>4851</fpage><lpage>4853</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31233103?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31233103</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR24" publication-type="journal">Kamat MA, Blackshaw JA, Young R, Surendran P, Burgess S, Danesh J, Butterworth AS, Staley JR. PhenoScanner V2: an expanded tool for searching human genotype-phenotype associations. Bioinformatics. 2019;35(22):4851&#x02013;3.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31233103</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR25"><label>25.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR25" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Burgess</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Thompson</surname><given-names>SG</given-names></name><name><surname>Collaboration</surname><given-names>CCG</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Avoiding bias from weak instruments in Mendelian randomization studies</article-title><source>Int J Epidemiol</source><year>2011</year><volume>40</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>755</fpage><lpage>764</lpage><?supplied-pmid 21414999?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21414999</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR25" publication-type="journal">Burgess S, Thompson SG, Collaboration CCG. Avoiding bias from weak instruments in Mendelian randomization studies. Int J Epidemiol. 2011;40(3):755&#x02013;64.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21414999</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR26"><label>26.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR26" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Burgess</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Butterworth</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Thompson</surname><given-names>SG</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Mendelian randomization analysis with multiple genetic variants using summarized data</article-title><source>Genet Epidemiol</source><year>2013</year><volume>37</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>658</fpage><lpage>665</lpage><?supplied-pmid 24114802?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24114802</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR26" publication-type="journal">Burgess S, Butterworth A, Thompson SG. Mendelian randomization analysis with multiple genetic variants using summarized data. Genet Epidemiol. 2013;37(7):658&#x02013;65.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24114802</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR27"><label>27.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR27" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Burgess</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Thompson</surname><given-names>SG</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Interpreting findings from Mendelian randomization using the MR-Egger method</article-title><source>Eur J Epidemiol</source><year>2017</year><volume>32</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>377</fpage><lpage>389</lpage><?supplied-pmid 28527048?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28527048</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR27" publication-type="journal">Burgess S, Thompson SG. Interpreting findings from Mendelian randomization using the MR-Egger method. Eur J Epidemiol. 2017;32(5):377&#x02013;89.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28527048</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR28"><label>28.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR28" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bowden</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Davey Smith</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Burgess</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Mendelian randomization with invalid instruments: effect estimation and bias detection through Egger regression</article-title><source>Int J Epidemiol</source><year>2015</year><volume>44</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>512</fpage><lpage>525</lpage><?supplied-pmid 26050253?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26050253</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR28" publication-type="journal">Bowden J, Davey Smith G, Burgess S. Mendelian randomization with invalid instruments: effect estimation and bias detection through Egger regression. Int J Epidemiol. 2015;44(2):512&#x02013;25.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26050253</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR29"><label>29.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR29" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bowden</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Davey Smith</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Haycock</surname><given-names>PC</given-names></name><name><surname>Burgess</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Consistent estimation in Mendelian randomization with some invalid instruments using a weighted median estimator</article-title><source>Genet Epidemiol</source><year>2016</year><volume>40</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>304</fpage><lpage>314</lpage><?supplied-pmid 27061298?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27061298</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR29" publication-type="journal">Bowden J, Davey Smith G, Haycock PC, Burgess S. Consistent estimation in Mendelian randomization with some invalid instruments using a weighted median estimator. Genet Epidemiol. 2016;40(4):304&#x02013;14.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27061298</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR30"><label>30.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR30" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Turley</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Walters</surname><given-names>RK</given-names></name><name><surname>Maghzian</surname><given-names>O</given-names></name><name><surname>Okbay</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>JJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Fontana</surname><given-names>MA</given-names></name><name><surname>Nguyen-Viet</surname><given-names>TA</given-names></name><name><surname>Wedow</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Zacher</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Furlotte</surname><given-names>NA</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Multi-trait analysis of genome-wide association summary statistics using MTAG</article-title><source>Nat Genet</source><year>2018</year><volume>50</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>229</fpage><lpage>237</lpage><?supplied-pmid 29292387?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29292387</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR30" publication-type="journal">Turley P, Walters RK, Maghzian O, Okbay A, Lee JJ, Fontana MA, Nguyen-Viet TA, Wedow R, Zacher M, Furlotte NA, et al. Multi-trait analysis of genome-wide association summary statistics using MTAG. Nat Genet. 2018;50(2):229&#x02013;37.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29292387</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR31"><label>31.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR31" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><collab>Consortium GT</collab></person-group><article-title>The GTEx Consortium atlas of genetic regulatory effects across human tissues</article-title><source>Science</source><year>2020</year><volume>369</volume><issue>6509</issue><fpage>1318</fpage><lpage>1330</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32913098</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR31" publication-type="journal">Consortium GT. The GTEx Consortium atlas of genetic regulatory effects across human tissues. Science. 2020;369(6509):1318&#x02013;30.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32913098</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR32"><label>32.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR32" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Miller</surname><given-names>JA</given-names></name><name><surname>Gouwens</surname><given-names>NW</given-names></name><name><surname>Tasic</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Collman</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>van Velthoven</surname><given-names>CT</given-names></name><name><surname>Bakken</surname><given-names>TE</given-names></name><name><surname>Hawrylycz</surname><given-names>MJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Zeng</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Lein</surname><given-names>ES</given-names></name><name><surname>Bernard</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Common cell type nomenclature for the mammalian brain</article-title><source>Elife</source><year>2020</year><volume>9</volume><fpage>e59928</fpage><?supplied-pmid 33372656?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33372656</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR32" publication-type="journal">Miller JA, Gouwens NW, Tasic B, Collman F, van Velthoven CT, Bakken TE, Hawrylycz MJ, Zeng H, Lein ES, Bernard A. Common cell type nomenclature for the mammalian brain. Elife. 2020;9:e59928.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33372656</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR33"><label>33.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR33" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lavin</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Melis</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Mikulan</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Gelormini</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Huepe</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Iba&#x000f1;ez</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The anterior cingulate cortex: an integrative hub for human socially-driven interactions</article-title><source>Front Neurosci</source><year>2013</year><volume>7</volume><fpage>64</fpage><?supplied-pmid 23658536?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23658536</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR33" publication-type="journal">Lavin C, Melis C, Mikulan E, Gelormini C, Huepe D, Iba&#x000f1;ez A. The anterior cingulate cortex: an integrative hub for human socially-driven interactions. Front Neurosci. 2013;7:64.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23658536</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR34"><label>34.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR34" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>van Tol</surname><given-names>MJ</given-names></name><name><surname>van der Wee</surname><given-names>NJ</given-names></name><name><surname>van den Heuvel</surname><given-names>OA</given-names></name><name><surname>Nielen</surname><given-names>MM</given-names></name><name><surname>Demenescu</surname><given-names>LR</given-names></name><name><surname>Aleman</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Renken</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>van Buchem</surname><given-names>MA</given-names></name><name><surname>Zitman</surname><given-names>FG</given-names></name><name><surname>Veltman</surname><given-names>DJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Regional brain volume in depression and anxiety disorders</article-title><source>Arch Gen Psychiatry</source><year>2010</year><volume>67</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>1002</fpage><lpage>1011</lpage><?supplied-pmid 20921116?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20921116</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR34" publication-type="journal">van Tol MJ, van der Wee NJ, van den Heuvel OA, Nielen MM, Demenescu LR, Aleman A, Renken R, van Buchem MA, Zitman FG, Veltman DJ. Regional brain volume in depression and anxiety disorders. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 2010;67(10):1002&#x02013;11.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20921116</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR35"><label>35.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR35" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Liao</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Jiang</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Yan</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Yue</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Yan</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Progressive grey matter volume changes in patients with schizophrenia over 6 weeks of antipsychotic treatment and their relationship to clinical improvement</article-title><source>Neurosci Bull</source><year>2018</year><volume>34</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>816</fpage><lpage>826</lpage><?supplied-pmid 29779085?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29779085</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR35" publication-type="journal">Zhang X, Zhang Y, Liao J, Jiang S, Yan J, Yue W, Zhang D, Yan H. Progressive grey matter volume changes in patients with schizophrenia over 6 weeks of antipsychotic treatment and their relationship to clinical improvement. Neurosci Bull. 2018;34(5):816&#x02013;26.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29779085</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR36"><label>36.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR36" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Yan</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Tian</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Yan</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Sun</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>Q</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>YB</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>XM</given-names></name><name><surname>Zang</surname><given-names>YF</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Functional and anatomical connectivity abnormalities in cognitive division of anterior cingulate cortex in schizophrenia</article-title><source>PLoS ONE</source><year>2012</year><volume>7</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>e45659</fpage><?supplied-pmid 23049832?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23049832</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR36" publication-type="journal">Yan H, Tian L, Yan J, Sun W, Liu Q, Zhang YB, Li XM, Zang YF, Zhang D. Functional and anatomical connectivity abnormalities in cognitive division of anterior cingulate cortex in schizophrenia. PLoS ONE. 2012;7(9): e45659.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23049832</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR37"><label>37.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR37" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Gusev</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Ko</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Shi</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Bhatia</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Chung</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Penninx</surname><given-names>BW</given-names></name><name><surname>Jansen</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>de Geus</surname><given-names>EJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Boomsma</surname><given-names>DI</given-names></name><name><surname>Wright</surname><given-names>FA</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Integrative approaches for large-scale transcriptome-wide association studies</article-title><source>Nat Genet</source><year>2016</year><volume>48</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>245</fpage><lpage>252</lpage><?supplied-pmid 26854917?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26854917</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR37" publication-type="journal">Gusev A, Ko A, Shi H, Bhatia G, Chung W, Penninx BW, Jansen R, de Geus EJ, Boomsma DI, Wright FA, et al. Integrative approaches for large-scale transcriptome-wide association studies. Nat Genet. 2016;48(3):245&#x02013;52.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26854917</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR38"><label>38.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR38" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Welin</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Egeblad</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Johansson</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Stenmark</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Flodin</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Nyman</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Tresaugues</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Kotenyova</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Johansson</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Structural and functional studies of the human phosphoribosyltransferase domain containing protein 1</article-title><source>FEBS J</source><year>2010</year><volume>277</volume><issue>23</issue><fpage>4920</fpage><lpage>4930</lpage><?supplied-pmid 21054786?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21054786</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR38" publication-type="journal">Welin M, Egeblad L, Johansson A, Stenmark P, Wang L, Flodin S, Nyman T, Tresaugues L, Kotenyova T, Johansson I, et al. Structural and functional studies of the human phosphoribosyltransferase domain containing protein 1. FEBS J. 2010;277(23):4920&#x02013;30.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21054786</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR39"><label>39.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR39" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>GD</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhuo</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Synergistic enhancement of glutamate-mediated responses by serotonin and forskolin in adult mouse spinal dorsal horn neurons</article-title><source>J Neurophysiol</source><year>2002</year><volume>87</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>732</fpage><lpage>739</lpage><?supplied-pmid 11826042?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">11826042</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR39" publication-type="journal">Wang GD, Zhuo M. Synergistic enhancement of glutamate-mediated responses by serotonin and forskolin in adult mouse spinal dorsal horn neurons. J Neurophysiol. 2002;87(2):732&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">11826042</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR40"><label>40.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR40" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Nakanishi</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Molecular diversity of glutamate receptors and implications for brain function</article-title><source>Science</source><year>1992</year><volume>258</volume><issue>5082</issue><fpage>597</fpage><lpage>603</lpage><?supplied-pmid 1329206?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">1329206</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR40" publication-type="journal">Nakanishi S. Molecular diversity of glutamate receptors and implications for brain function. Science. 1992;258(5082):597&#x02013;603.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">1329206</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR41"><label>41.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR41" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ribeiro</surname><given-names>FM</given-names></name><name><surname>Vieira</surname><given-names>LB</given-names></name><name><surname>Pires</surname><given-names>RG</given-names></name><name><surname>Olmo</surname><given-names>RP</given-names></name><name><surname>Ferguson</surname><given-names>SS</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Metabotropic glutamate receptors and neurodegenerative diseases</article-title><source>Pharmacol Res</source><year>2017</year><volume>115</volume><fpage>179</fpage><lpage>191</lpage><?supplied-pmid 27872019?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27872019</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR41" publication-type="journal">Ribeiro FM, Vieira LB, Pires RG, Olmo RP, Ferguson SS. Metabotropic glutamate receptors and neurodegenerative diseases. Pharmacol Res. 2017;115:179&#x02013;91.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27872019</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref></ref-list></back></article>