# Adjuvant therapeutic efficacy of low-dose aspirin on short-term outcomes of patients with cancer-associated venous thromboembolism.

<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//NLM//DTD JATS (Z39.96) Journal Archiving and Interchange DTD with MathML3 v1.3 20210610//EN" "JATS-archivearticle1-3-mathml3.dtd"> 
<article xmlns:ali="http://www.niso.org/schemas/ali/1.0/" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" article-type="research-article" dtd-version="1.3"><?properties open_access?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierValue -//Springer-Verlag//DTD A++ V2.4//EN?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierType public?><?SourceDTD.DTDName A++V2.4.dtd?><?SourceDTD.Version 2.4?><?ConverterInfo.XSLTName springer2nlmx2.xsl?><?ConverterInfo.Version 1?><processing-meta base-tagset="archiving" mathml-version="3.0" table-model="xhtml" tagset-family="jats"><restricted-by>pmc</restricted-by></processing-meta><front><journal-meta><journal-id journal-id-type="nlm-ta">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-id journal-id-type="iso-abbrev">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-title-group><journal-title>BMC Medicine</journal-title></journal-title-group><issn pub-type="epub">1741-7015</issn><publisher><publisher-name>BioMed Central</publisher-name><publisher-loc>London</publisher-loc></publisher></journal-meta>
<article-meta><article-id pub-id-type="pmcid">12306065</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="pmid">40722083</article-id>
<article-id pub-id-type="publisher-id">4284</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12916-025-04284-8</article-id><article-categories><subj-group subj-group-type="heading"><subject>Research</subject></subj-group></article-categories><title-group><article-title>Adjuvant therapeutic efficacy of low-dose aspirin on short-term outcomes of patients with cancer-associated venous thromboembolism</article-title></title-group><contrib-group><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><contrib-id contrib-id-type="orcid">http://orcid.org/0000-0003-2126-8535</contrib-id><name><surname>Xiong</surname><given-names>Wei</given-names></name><address><email>xiongwei@xinhuamed.com.cn</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Deng</surname><given-names>Zhenzhong</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff4">4</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Cheng</surname><given-names>Yi</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Song</surname><given-names>Xiaoyang</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Yao</surname><given-names>Qihuan</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff5">5</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Qu</surname><given-names>Jianmin</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff6">6</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>Mei</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff7">7</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Han</surname><given-names>Fengfeng</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Guo</surname><given-names>Xuejun</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Luo</surname><given-names>Yong</given-names></name><address><email>dr_luoyong@sina.com</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref></contrib><aff id="Aff1"><label>1</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/0220qvk04</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.16821.3c</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 0368 8293</institution-id><institution>Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, </institution><institution>Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine, </institution></institution-wrap>Shanghai, China </aff><aff id="Aff2"><label>2</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/02kpeqv85</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.258799.8</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 0372 2033</institution-id><institution>Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, </institution><institution>Kyoto University, </institution></institution-wrap>Kyoto, Japan </aff><aff id="Aff3"><label>3</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/03ns6aq57</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.507037.6</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 1764 1277</institution-id><institution>Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, </institution><institution>Chongming Hospital, Shanghai University of Medicine and Health Sciences, </institution></institution-wrap>Shanghai, China </aff><aff id="Aff4"><label>4</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/0220qvk04</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.16821.3c</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 0368 8293</institution-id><institution>Department of Oncology, </institution><institution>Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine, </institution></institution-wrap>Shanghai, China </aff><aff id="Aff5"><label>5</label>Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Kongjiang Hospital, Yangpu District, Shanghai, China </aff><aff id="Aff6"><label>6</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/011m1x742</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.440187.e</institution-id><institution>Department of Critical Care Medicine, </institution><institution>Tongxiang First People&#x02019;s Hospital, </institution></institution-wrap>Zhejiang Province, Tongxiang, China </aff><aff id="Aff7"><label>7</label>Department of General Practice, Bund Community Health Service Center, Hongkou District, Shanghai, North China </aff></contrib-group><pub-date pub-type="epub"><day>28</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="pmc-release"><day>28</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="collection"><year>2025</year></pub-date><volume>23</volume><elocation-id>444</elocation-id><history><date date-type="received"><day>2</day><month>11</month><year>2024</year></date><date date-type="accepted"><day>16</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></date></history><permissions><copyright-statement>&#x000a9; The Author(s) 2025</copyright-statement><copyright-year>2025</copyright-year><license><ali:license_ref specific-use="textmining" content-type="ccbylicense">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/</ali:license_ref><license-p><bold>Open Access</bold> This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article's Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article's Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/">http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/</ext-link>.</license-p></license></permissions><abstract id="Abs1"><sec><title>Background</title><p id="Par11">Although aspirin was reported to have primary thromboprophylactic efficacy on cancer patients, its adjuvant role in the treatment of patients with cancer-associated venous thromboembolism (VTE) has been unclear yet.</p></sec><sec><title>Methods</title><p id="Par12">Patients with cancer-associated VTE were retrospectively analyzed and divided into aspirin group and non-aspirin group based on whether they underwent low-dose aspirin (100 mg daily) in addition to conventional anticoagulants. Propensity score matching was used to balance baseline characteristics between the aspirin group and non-aspirin group in a 1:2 ratio. The primary, secondary, and tertiary outcomes were VTE recurrence, mortality and major bleeding, and net clinical benefit (NCB), at 6 months after VTE diagnosis, respectively.</p></sec><sec><title>Results</title><p id="Par13">The VTE recurrence occurred in 13 (3.1%) in the aspirin group (<italic>N</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;423) and 55 (6.5%) in the non-aspirin group (<italic>N</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;846) (hazard ratio [HR] 0.546, 95% confidence interval [CI] [0.298&#x02013;0.988], <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.011). The PE-related mortality occurred in 12 (2.8%) in the aspirin group and 46 (5.4%) in the non-aspirin group (HR 0.535, 95% CI [0.283&#x02013;0.909], <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.037). The all-cause mortality occurred in 108 (25.5%) in the aspirin group and 228 (27.0%) in the non-aspirin group (HR 0.983, 95% CI [0.782&#x02013;1.237], <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.887). The major bleeding occurred in 52 (12.3%) in the aspirin group and 46 (5.4%) in the non-aspirin group (HR 2.448, 95% CI [1.646&#x02013;3.641], <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001). The NCB occurred in 274 (64.8%) in the aspirin group and 554 (65.5%) in the non-aspirin group (HR 0.976, 95% CI [0.801&#x02013;1.189], <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.812).</p></sec><sec><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par14">For patients with cancer-associated VTE, the adjuvant use of low-dose aspirin based on conventional anticoagulants improves VTE recurrence and PE-related mortality, compared with isolated use of anticoagulants, whereas it does not improve all-cause mortality or net clinical benefit. Adjuvant low-dose aspirin use is associated with an increased risk of bleeding.</p></sec><sec><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12916-025-04284-8.</p></sec></abstract><kwd-group xml:lang="en"><title>Keywords</title><kwd>Venous thromboembolism</kwd><kwd>Cancer</kwd><kwd>Outcomes</kwd><kwd>Aspirin</kwd><kwd>Adjuvant</kwd></kwd-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>International talent training program of Shanghai Xinhua Hospital</institution></funding-source><award-id>2023YGJRC04</award-id></award-group></funding-group><custom-meta-group><custom-meta><meta-name>issue-copyright-statement</meta-name><meta-value>&#x000a9; BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2025</meta-value></custom-meta></custom-meta-group></article-meta></front><body><sec id="Sec1"><title>Background</title><p id="Par33">As a result of the growing and aging population and increases in cancer survival due to advances in early detection and treatment, the impact of cancer to human health is still ongoing. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>] For active cancer patients, cancer-associated venous thromboembolism (VTE) that comprises pulmonary embolism (PE) and deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is their second leading cause of death after the cancer per se. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>]</p><p id="Par34">Aspirin, also known as acetylsalicylic acid, is an antithrombotic agent due to its inhibitory activity of platelet aggregation. Low-dose aspirin that is defined as 100 mg daily is endorsed for the thromboprophylaxis of cancer-associated VTE in multiple myeloma by several mainstream guidelines. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>] Furthermore, it was reported that aspirin was also associated with lower VTE incidence without significant bleeding risk, for patients with lung, stomach, colon, liver, pancreatic, prostate, breast, ovarian, bladder, and kidney cancers, as well as lymphoma and leukemia. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>] Aspirin is considered to have a primary thromboprophylactic efficacy on VTE occurrence in patients with active cancer. In addition, it was reported that use of aspirin can safely reduce cancer incidence, cancer mortality, and cancer metastatic risk. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>] Aspirin is also believed to have anticancer activity.
</p><p id="Par35">Nevertheless, the secondary thromboprophylactic efficacy of aspirin on VTE recurrence in patients diagnosed with cancer-associated VTE is still unclear currently, since previous studies have suggested that aspirin has moderate efficacy in the secondary thromboprophylaxis of VTE recurrence in general VTE patients. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>] Given that aspirin has primary thromboprophylaxis and anticancer efficacy on cancer patients, it was hypothesized that the joint use of low-dose aspirin on the basis of conventional anticoagulation therapy may have certain adjuvant therapeutic efficacy, thereby improving the overall outcomes of patients with cancer-associated VTE, compared with isolated conventional anticoagulation therapy. Due to the current scarcity of such literature, we conducted the current study to address this topic.</p></sec><sec id="Sec2"><title>Methods</title><sec id="Sec3"><title>Study design</title><p id="Par36">The current investigation was an investigator-initiated, multicenter, retrospective, observational cohort study that investigated the adjuvant therapeutic efficacy of low-dose aspirin on the clinical outcomes of patients with acute cancer-associated VTE. International Classification of Diseases, 10th revision (ICD-10) codes were used to identify subjects. We selected consecutive patients with the ICD-10 codes of I26 (I26.0, I26.9) or I80 (I80.1, I80.2, I80.3) or I82 (I82.2, I82.3, I82.4, I82.6, I82.8, I82.9), and with the ICD-10 codes among C00&#x02013;C97 concurrently, from the inpatient electronic medical record systems of the participating medical centers. Cancer-associated VTE patients who underwent conventional anticoagulation treatment with and without low-dose oral aspirin regimen for 6 months after the diagnosis of cancer-associated VTE were collected. The patients who took low-dose aspirin daily were defined as aspirin group, whereas those who did not take aspirin or took aspirin occasionally were defined as non-aspirin group. Low-dose aspirin was defined as 100 mg daily. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>] According to the presence or absence of PE, all patients were further divided into PE and non-PE subgroups. The aspirin prescription was fully at the discretion of the attending physicians of all patients, for the purpose of primary or secondary prophylaxis of cardiovascular and/or cerebrovascular events in most cases.</p></sec><sec id="Sec4"><title>Patients</title><p id="Par37">The inclusion criteria were as follows: (1) Patients were 18 years old or older. (2) Patients had primary active cancer [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>] with definite pathological diagnosis and objectively confirmed diagnosis of acute cancer-associated VTE, by means of compression ultrasonography (CUS) on lower extremities, computed tomography pulmonary angiography (CTPA), and planar ventilation/perfusion (V/Q) scan. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>] (3) Patients underwent a standard treatment of conventional direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) which included rivaroxaban, edoxaban, and dabigatran for at least 6 months after the diagnosis of cancer-associated VTE, [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>] with or without taking low-dose aspirin, and underwent routine VTE follow-up once every 3 to 6 months in principle according to the guidelines, [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>] at the discretion of their attending physicians. (4) Patients received appropriate anticancer treatment in line with the recommendation from the Chinese Society of Clinical Oncology (CSCO), at the discretion of their attending oncologists. The exclusion criteria were as follows: (1) Patient had a definite medical history of chronic thromboembolic disease (CTED). [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>] (2) Patients received non-low-dose aspirin or other antiplatelet agents than aspirin during the treatment of cancer-associated VTE.</p></sec><sec id="Sec5"><title>Follow-up</title><p id="Par38">The patients entered follow-up stage immediately after discharge. They were requested to return to the same hospitals where their VTE was diagnosed and treated for follow-up visits at 3 and 6 months after cancer-associated VTE diagnosis. All the patients were required to undergo mandatory VTE imaging review at the 3-month follow-up after cancer-associated VTE diagnosis. The patients also needed to undergo VTE imaging review if they presented with typical VTE recurrent symptoms, between the 3-month and 6-month follow-up visits after cancer-associated VTE diagnosis. All information of the patients were retrieved from the electronic medical record system of the participating hospitals. Patients whose crucial information were lacking in the electronic medical record system were contacted by telephone to supplement relevant information.</p></sec><sec id="Sec6"><title>Outcome measures</title><p id="Par39">The diagnosis of cancer-associated VTE was defined as baseline. The primary outcome of the current study was VTE recurrence including PE, DVT, or both, at 6 months after the cancer-associated VTE diagnosis. VTE recurrence was defined as new defect on V/Q scan or new thromboembolism on CTPA, or new thrombi in venous segments or an increase more than 4 mm in venous diameter for a previous thrombi on CUS, by comparison with previous imaging, [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>] with or without the symptoms of recurrence. The secondary outcomes were mortality including PE-related and all-cause mortality, and major bleeding, at 6 months after the cancer-associated VTE diagnosis. PE-related mortality was defined as objectively confirmed PE before death without more likely cause of death, autopsy-confirmed PE without more likely cause of death, or PE was most likely the major cause of death albeit being not objectively confirmed. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR21">21</xref>] Major bleeding was defined as fatal bleeding, symptomatic bleeding in a critical area or organ, or bleeding leading to a fall of 20 g/L or more in hemoglobin level, or to a transfusion of two or more units of whole blood or red cells. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR22">22</xref>] The tertiary outcome was net clinical benefit (NCB) that was defined as the patients without any one of the VTE recurrence, major bleeding, or death from any cause, [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>] at 6 months after the cancer-associated VTE diagnosis.</p></sec><sec id="Sec7"><title>Study oversight</title><p id="Par40">The current study protocol was approved by the institutional review board of Shanghai Xinhua Hospital (approval number: XHEC-QT-2021&#x02013;056). Shanghai Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai Chongming District Central Hospital, Shanghai Kongjiang Hospital, Tongxiang First People&#x02019;s Hospital, and Shanghai North Bund Community Health Service Center participated in the current study. Written informed consent from the participants or their next of kin was waived due to: (1) the study involves no more than minimal risk for patients; (2) the study cannot adversely affect the rights and welfare of patients; (3) the study cannot be performed without the exemption of informed consent of patients. All the authors contributed to the final manuscript and guaranteed the accuracy and completeness of the data and the fidelity of the study to the protocol. No one who is not an author contributes to the manuscript. The overall reporting of this study was basically in line with the Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (STROBE) statement. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>]</p></sec><sec id="Sec8"><title>Statistical analysis</title><p id="Par41">Continuous variables were presented as mean and standard deviation or as median and interquartile range, based on whether they followed a normal distribution, whereas categorical variables were presented as numbers and percentages. Shapiro&#x02013;Wilk test was used in the normality test. Missing data were addressed using multiple imputation. Comparison of continuous variables were performed using Student <italic>t</italic>-test, or Mann&#x02013;Whitney <italic>U</italic> test based on whether they followed a normal distribution, whereas comparison of categorical variables were conducted using &#x003c7;2 test or Fisher exact test. Time-dependent cumulative incidences of outcomes between the aspirin and non-aspirin groups for all the patients and for the PE subgroup were compared using Kaplan&#x02013;Meier method. Fine and Gray regression model [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>] was used to compute the hazard ratio (HR) and two-sided 95% confidence intervals (CI) for the outcome comparison between the aspirin and non-aspirin groups after adjustment for the competing risk of death unrelated to VTE.</p><p id="Par42">Propensity score matching (PSM) was used to eliminate the potential bias in the current study. Basically based on the previous literature, [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>] we matched the demographics including age, sex, and body mass index, VTE recurrence-related factors including Ottawa score, previous VTE, thrombophilia, PE occurrence, cancer types mainly including lung, lymphoma, gynecologic, bladder, brain, stomach, and pancreatic cancers, [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>] D-dimer, thromboprophylaxis before VTE, anticancer treatment after VTE, and types of DOACs used after VTE, mortality-related factors including high-risk PE, cardiopulmonary diseases, terminal cancer, metastasis, and performance status, and bleeding-related factors including major bleeding history and VTE-BLEED score, between the aspirin and non-aspirin groups. Nearest-neighbor matching, also known as greedy matching, was used without replacement in the PSM analysis. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>] The ratio of number of patients in the aspirin group to non-aspirin group was predetermined to be 1:2, since the number of patients in the non-aspirin group was much more than that in the aspirin group. We selected 1 patient in the aspirin group first, then matched 2 patients in the non-aspirin group who had a linear propensity score being closest to the selected one in the aspirin group, using calipers of width equal to 0.2 of the standard deviation of the logit of the propensity score. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR26">26</xref>] SPSS 26 and R software 3.6.1 were used for statistical analysis. Statistical significance was defined as a <italic>P</italic> value being less than 0.05.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec9"><title>Results</title><sec id="Sec10"><title>Patients</title><p id="Par43">A total of 2532 patients between May 2017 and May 2024 in participating centers were collected according to the inclusion criteria. After excluding 56 patients with CTED history and 118 patients receiving non-low-dose aspirin or other antiplatelets than aspirin according to the exclusion criteria, there were 2358 patients left to proceed to the next research step. After PSM, there were 1269 patients who have entered the final analysis stage. The number of patients in the aspirin group and non-aspirin group were 423 and 846, respectively. The study flowchart is demonstrated in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>. The Love plot demonstrating absolute standardized mean difference between the aspirin and non-aspirin groups before and after PSM is displayed in Fig. <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S1</xref> in Additional file 1.<fig id="Fig1"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;1</label><caption><p>Study flowchart. Abbreviation: CTED, chronic thromboembolic disease</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4284_Fig1_HTML" id="MO1"/></fig></p><p id="Par44">There were no significantly statistical difference in demographics, VTE recurrence-related factors, mortality-related factors, and bleeding-related factors, between the two groups at baseline. The characteristics of patients after PSM are presented in Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref>. The characteristics of patients before PSM are presented in Table <xref rid="MOESM2" ref-type="media">S1</xref> in Additional file 2. Cancer types in detail after PSM are presented in Table <xref rid="MOESM2" ref-type="media">S2</xref> in Additional file 2.
<table-wrap id="Tab1"><label>Table&#x000a0;1</label><caption><p>Characteristics of patients after propensity score matching</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left"/><th align="left"><bold>Aspirin (</bold><bold><italic>N</italic></bold><bold>&#x02009;=&#x02009;423)</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>Non-aspirin (</bold><bold><italic>N</italic></bold><bold>&#x02009;=&#x02009;846)</bold></th><th align="left"><bold><italic>P</italic></bold><bold> value</bold></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left" colspan="4"><bold>Demographics</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Age&#x02014;years</td><td align="left">67.8&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.5</td><td align="left">68.9&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.4</td><td char="." align="char">0.108</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Male&#x02014;no. (%)</td><td align="left">252 (59.6)</td><td align="left">543 (64.2)</td><td char="." align="char">0.110</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Body mass index&#x02014;kg/m<sup>2</sup></td><td align="left">22.2&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;3.7</td><td align="left">22.4&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;4.1</td><td char="." align="char">0.335</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="4"><bold>Medical history&#x02014;no. (%)</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">VTE history</td><td align="left">23 (5.4)</td><td align="left">38 (4.5)</td><td char="." align="char">0.458</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Cardiovascular diseases</td><td align="left">194 (45.9)</td><td align="left">40 (4.7)</td><td char="." align="char">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Cerebrovascular diseases</td><td align="left">137 (32.4)</td><td align="left">52 (6.1)</td><td char="." align="char">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Thrombophilia</td><td align="left">17 (4.0)</td><td align="left">26 (3.1)</td><td char="." align="char">0.380</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Active autoimmune diseases</td><td align="left">19 (4.5)</td><td align="left">37 (4.4)</td><td char="." align="char">0.923</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Chronic pulmonary diseases</td><td align="left">39 (9.2)</td><td align="left">83 (9.8)</td><td char="." align="char">0.736</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Major bleeding history</td><td align="left">57 (13.5)</td><td align="left">104 (12.3)</td><td char="." align="char">0.551</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="4"><bold>VTE characteristics</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">PE without DVT&#x02014;no. (%)</td><td align="left">89 (21.0)</td><td align="left">180 (21.3)</td><td char="." align="char">0.923</td></tr><tr><td align="left">PE with DVT&#x02014;no. (%)</td><td align="left">81 (19.1)</td><td align="left">201 (23.8)</td><td char="." align="char">0.063</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Isolated DVT&#x02014;no. (%)</td><td align="left">253 (59.8)</td><td align="left">465 (55.0)</td><td char="." align="char">0.101</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Symptomatic VTE&#x02014;no. (%)</td><td align="left">222 (52.5)</td><td align="left">475 (56.1)</td><td char="." align="char">0.216</td></tr><tr><td align="left">High-risk PE&#x02014;no. (%)</td><td align="left">12 (2.8)</td><td align="left">28 (3.3)</td><td char="." align="char">0.650</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Ottawa score&#x02014;points</td><td align="left">0.27&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.80</td><td align="left">0.20&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;0.86</td><td char="." align="char">0.141</td></tr><tr><td align="left">VTE-BLEED score&#x02014;points</td><td align="left">2 (1&#x02013;3)</td><td align="left">2 (1&#x02013;3)</td><td char="." align="char">0.396</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="4"><bold>Cancer characteristics</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Metastatic cancer&#x02014;no. (%)</td><td align="left">103 (24.3)</td><td align="left">240 (28.4)</td><td char="." align="char">0.129</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Terminal cancer&#x02014;no. (%)</td><td align="left">32 (7.6)</td><td align="left">85 (10.0)</td><td char="." align="char">0.150</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Recurrent cancer&#x02014;no. (%)</td><td align="left">51 (12.1)</td><td align="left">89 (10.5)</td><td char="." align="char">0.410</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Performance status&#x02014;points</td><td align="left">0 (0&#x02013;1)</td><td align="left">0 (0&#x02013;1)</td><td char="." align="char">0.199</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Anticancer treatment after VTE&#x02014;no. (%)</td><td align="left">306 (72.3)</td><td align="left">582 (68.8)</td><td char="." align="char">0.194</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Surgery</td><td align="left">112 (26.5)</td><td align="left">253 (29.9)</td><td char="." align="char">0.203</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Chemotherapy</td><td align="left">246 (58.2)</td><td align="left">451 (53.3)</td><td char="." align="char">0.102</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Tyrosine kinase inhibitors</td><td align="left">137 (32.4)</td><td align="left">244 (28.8)</td><td char="." align="char">0.194</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Immunotherapy</td><td align="left">96 (22.7)</td><td align="left">158 (18.7)</td><td char="." align="char">0.092</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="4"><bold>Laboratory tests</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">D-dimer&#x02014;mg/L</td><td align="left">3.2&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;2.1</td><td align="left">3.3&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;2.3</td><td char="." align="char">0.357</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Platelet&#x02014;10<sup>9</sup>/L</td><td align="left">212&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;96</td><td align="left">218&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;92</td><td char="." align="char">0.306</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Hemoglobin&#x02014;g/L</td><td align="left">110&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;18</td><td align="left">112&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;19</td><td char="." align="char">0.092</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Creatine&#x02014;&#x003bc;mol/L</td><td align="left">75.8&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;59.7</td><td align="left">72.0&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;36.6</td><td char="." align="char">0.230</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="4"><bold>Anticoagulants&#x02014;no. (%)</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Dabigatran</td><td align="left">66 (15.6)</td><td align="left">144 (17.0)</td><td char="." align="char">0.642</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Edoxaban</td><td align="left">136 (32.1)</td><td align="left">289 (34.2)</td><td char="." align="char">0.475</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Rivaroxaban</td><td align="left">221 (52.2)</td><td align="left">413 (48.8)</td><td char="." align="char">0.250</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Thromboprophylaxis before VTE</td><td align="left">105 (24.8)</td><td align="left">221 (26.1)</td><td char="." align="char">0.617</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="4"><bold>Aspirin&#x02014;no. (%)</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Long term&#x02014;no. (%)</td><td align="left">327 (77.3)</td><td align="left">52 (6.1)</td><td char="." align="char">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Length of use&#x02014;years</td><td align="left">16.8&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.2</td><td align="left">3.6&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;2.7</td><td char="." align="char">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>Continuous variables are presented as &#x0201c;mean&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;standard deviation&#x0201d; or as &#x0201c;median (interquartile range),&#x0201d; based on whether they follow a normal distribution</p><p>All other variables were overall complete, except BMI and VTE-BLEED score were processed by multiple imputation</p><p>Anticancer treatment was defined as a composite of medical and surgical therapies against cancer</p><p>Due to the fact that the same patient may receive multiple anticancer therapies, the sum of the proportions of several anticancer regimens in this table may exceed the proportion of the total anticancer treatment</p><p>Cancer types are presented in Table S2 in the Supplementary Material</p><p>Long-term aspirin use was defined as patients being prescribed with aspirin for at least 6 months</p><p>Abbreviations: <italic>VTE</italic>, venous thromboembolism; <italic>PE</italic>, pulmonary embolism; <italic>DVT</italic>, deep vein thrombosis; <italic>VTE-BLEED</italic>, actiVe cancer, male with uncontrolled hyperTension at baseline, anaEmia, history of BLeeding, agE&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;60&#x000a0;years, rEnal Dysfunction</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p></sec><sec id="Sec11"><title>Outcomes</title><p id="Par45">The primary outcome which was VTE recurrence occurred in 13 of 423 patients (3.1%) in the aspirin group and in 55 of 846 patients (6.5%) in the non-aspirin group (HR 0.546, 95% CI [0.298&#x02013;0.988], <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.011) (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref>). The recurrent isolated PE, PE with DVT, and isolated DVT were 4 (30.8%), 2 (15.4%), and 7 (53.8%) in the aspirin group and 13 (23.6%), 16 (29.1%), and 26 (47.3%) in the non-aspirin group, respectively (<italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.590). Pairwise comparison demonstrated that there was no statistical difference in the proportion of each type of VTE recurrence between the two groups either. The time-dependent occurrence of VTE recurrence is shown in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>A (log rank <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.046).
<table-wrap id="Tab2"><label>Table&#x000a0;2</label><caption><p>Comparison of outcomes between aspirin and non-aspirin groups</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left"/><th align="left"><bold>Aspirin (</bold><bold><italic>N</italic></bold><bold>&#x02009;=&#x02009;423)</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>Non-aspirin (</bold><bold><italic>N</italic></bold><bold>&#x02009;=&#x02009;846)</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>Hazard ratio (95% confidence interval)</bold></th><th align="left"><bold><italic>P</italic></bold><bold> value</bold></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left" colspan="5"><bold>Primary outcome&#x02014;no. (%)</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">VTE recurrence</td><td align="left">13 (3.1)</td><td align="left">55 (6.5)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">0.546 (0.298&#x02013;0.988)</td><td char="." align="char">0.011</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5"><bold>Secondary outcomes&#x02014;no. (%)</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">PE-related mortality</td><td align="left">12 (2.8)</td><td align="left">46 (5.4)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">0.535 (0.283&#x02013;0.909)</td><td char="." align="char">0.037</td></tr><tr><td align="left">All-cause mortality</td><td align="left">108 (25.5)</td><td align="left">228 (27.0)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">0.983 (0.782&#x02013;1.237)</td><td char="." align="char">0.887</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Major bleeding</td><td align="left">52 (12.3)</td><td align="left">46 (5.4)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">2.448 (1.646&#x02013;3.641)</td><td char="." align="char">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5"><bold>Tertiary outcome&#x02014;no. (%)</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Net clinical benefit</td><td align="left">274 (64.8)</td><td align="left">554 (65.5)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">0.976 (0.801&#x02013;1.189)</td><td char="." align="char">0.812</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>Net clinical benefit was defined as the patients without any one of the VTE recurrence, major bleeding, or death from any cause</p><p>Due to the possibility of VTE recurrence, major bleeding, or all-cause death occurring simultaneously in the same patient, the sum of the proportions of VTE recurrence, all-cause death, major bleeding, and net clinical benefit may exceed 100%</p><p>Abbreviations: <italic>VTE</italic>, venous thromboembolism; <italic>PE</italic>, pulmonary embolism</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap><fig id="Fig2"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;2</label><caption><p>Comparison of time-dependent VTE recurrence and PE-related mortality between aspirin and non-aspirin groups. Abbreviations: VTE, venous thromboembolism; PE, pulmonary embolism</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4284_Fig2_HTML" id="MO2"/></fig></p><p id="Par46">The PE-related mortality in the secondary outcomes occurred in 12 of 423 patients (2.8%) in the aspirin group and in 46 of 846 patients (5.4%) in the non-aspirin group (HR 0.535, 95% CI [0.283&#x02013;0.909], <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.037) (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref>). The time-dependent occurrence of PE-related mortality events is also shown in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>B (log rank <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.050). The all-cause mortality in the secondary outcomes occurred in 108 of 423 patients (25.5%) in the aspirin group and in 228 of 846 patients (27.0%) in the non-aspirin group (HR 0.983, 95% CI [0.782&#x02013;1.237], <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.887) (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref>). The time-dependent occurrence of all-cause mortality events is shown in Fig. <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S2</xref> in Additional file 1 (log rank <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.886). The major bleeding in the secondary outcomes occurred in 52 of 423 patients (12.3%) in the aspirin group and in 46 of 846 patients (5.4%) in the non-aspirin group (HR 2.448, 95% CI [1.646&#x02013;3.641], <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001) (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref>). The time-dependent occurrence of major bleeding events is shown in Fig. <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S3</xref> in Additional file 1 (log rank <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001).</p><p id="Par47">The tertiary outcome which was NCB occurred in 274 of 423 patients (64.8%) in the aspirin group and in 554 of 846 patients (65.5%) in the non-aspirin group (HR 0.976, 95% CI [0.801&#x02013;1.189], <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.812) (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref>).</p></sec><sec id="Sec12"><title>PE subgroup</title><p id="Par48">For the PE subgroup which included 749 patients with cancer-associated PE, the primary outcome occurred in 9 of 235 patients (3.8%) in the aspirin group and in 33 of 514 patients (6.4%) in the non-aspirin group (HR 0.682, 95% CI [0.326&#x02013;1.426], <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.309) (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab3" ref-type="table">3</xref>). The PE-related mortality in the secondary outcomes occurred in 8 of 235 patients (3.4%) in the aspirin group and in 35 of 514 patients (6.8%) in the non-aspirin group (HR 0.504, 95% CI [0.234&#x02013;1.087], <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.081) (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab3" ref-type="table">3</xref>). The all-cause mortality in the secondary outcomes occurred in 60 of 235 patients (25.5%) in the aspirin group and in 144 of 514 patients (28.0%) in the non-aspirin group (HR 0.930, 95% CI [0.688&#x02013;1.256], <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.635) (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab3" ref-type="table">3</xref>). The major bleeding in the secondary outcomes occurred in 28 of 235 patients (11.9%) in the aspirin group and in 28 of 514 patients (5.4%) in the non-aspirin group (HR 2.316, 95% CI [1.371&#x02013;3.911], <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.002) (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab3" ref-type="table">3</xref>). The NCB occurred in 153 of 235 patients (65.1%) in the aspirin group and in 332 of 514 patients (64.6%) in the non-aspirin group (HR 1.032, 95% CI [0.795&#x02013;1.340], <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.813) (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab3" ref-type="table">3</xref>).
<table-wrap id="Tab3"><label>Table&#x000a0;3</label><caption><p>Comparison of outcomes between aspirin and non-aspirin groups in PE subgroup</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left"/><th align="left"><bold>Aspirin (</bold><bold><italic>N</italic></bold><bold>&#x02009;=&#x02009;235)</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>Non-aspirin (</bold><bold><italic>N</italic></bold><bold>&#x02009;=&#x02009;514)</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>Hazard ratio (95% confidence interval)</bold></th><th align="left"><bold><italic>P</italic></bold><bold> value</bold></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left" colspan="5"><bold>Primary outcome&#x02014;no. (%)</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">VTE recurrence</td><td align="left">9 (3.8)</td><td align="left">33 (6.4)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">0.682 (0.326&#x02013;1.426)</td><td char="." align="char">0.309</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5"><bold>Secondary outcomes&#x02014;no. (%)</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">PE-related mortality</td><td align="left">8 (3.4)</td><td align="left">35 (6.8)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">0.504 (0.234&#x02013;1.087)</td><td char="." align="char">0.081</td></tr><tr><td align="left">All-cause mortality</td><td align="left">60 (25.5)</td><td align="left">144 (28.0)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">0.930 (0.688&#x02013;1.256)</td><td char="." align="char">0.635</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Major bleeding</td><td align="left">28 (11.9)</td><td align="left">28 (5.4)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">2.316 (1.371&#x02013;3.911)</td><td char="." align="char">0.002</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5"><bold>Tertiary outcome&#x02014;no. (%)</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Net clinical benefit</td><td align="left">153 (65.1)</td><td align="left">332 (64.6)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">1.032 (0.795&#x02013;1.340)</td><td char="." align="char">0.813</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>Net clinical benefit was defined as the patients without any one of the VTE recurrence, major bleeding, or death from any cause</p><p>Due to the possibility of VTE recurrence, major bleeding, or all-cause death occurring simultaneously in the same patient, the sum of the proportions of VTE recurrence, all-cause death, major bleeding, and net clinical benefit may exceed 100%</p><p>Abbreviations: <italic>VTE</italic>, venous thromboembolism; <italic>PE</italic>, pulmonary embolism</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec13"><title>Discussion</title><p id="Par49">Major findings derived from the current results were as follows: (1) For patients with cancer-associated VTE, the joint use of low-dose aspirin and anticoagulants reduced 6-month VTE recurrence and PE-related mortality rates, compared with isolated use of anticoagulants. (2) The joint use of low-dose aspirin and anticoagulants did not improve the 6-month all-cause mortality rate or NCB, compared with isolated use of anticoagulants. (3) The joint use of low-dose aspirin and anticoagulants raised 6-month major bleeding rate, compared with isolated use of anticoagulants. To our best knowledge, this is the first study conducted on this topic, since there have been no comparable ones so far.</p><p id="Par50">Although the primary thromboprophylactic efficacy of aspirin on cancer patients had been extensively reported, [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR27">27</xref>] its role in the treatment of cancer-associated VTE remained unclear before the current study. In the ASPIRE study, [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>] the use of aspirin did not significantly reduce the rate of isolated VTE recurrence, in patients with unprovoked VTE who had completed initial anticoagulant therapy. Nevertheless, since cancer patients accounted for merely 1.2% of all patients in the ASPIRE study, [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>] the findings cannot be fully extrapolated to patients with cancer-associated VTE. The current study suggested that aspirin had certain short-term adjuvant therapeutic efficacy on the secondary prophylaxis of VTE recurrence and the improvement of PE-related mortality in cancer-associated VTE patients, when it was used in combination with anticoagulant agents. This may be attributed to two reasons. One is that aspirin per se could have certain antithrombotic efficacy for the secondary prophylaxis of VTE recurrence. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>] The other is that the joint use of aspirin and anticoagulant agents may produce a synergistic effect, leading to a result greater than the simple sum of their therapeutic efficacy. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR28">28</xref>]</p><p id="Par51">One noteworthy point is that most patients in the aspirin group had a long-term history of aspirin use which was longer than 6 months, [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR29">29</xref>] compared with the patients in the non-aspirin group, which was natural in a retrospective study. This may raise three issues. One is that since the patients in the aspirin group still experienced VTE development despite undergoing primary thromboprophylaxis with aspirin, it suggested that these patients might have a higher risk of thrombosis due to comorbid cardiovascular and/or cerebrovascular diseases, compared with those in the non-aspirin group. The other issue is whether the aspirin use of the patients in the aspirin group before VTE diagnosis affect their outcomes after VTE diagnosis. In our opinion, since the use of aspirin had already failed to prevent VTE from occurring for the patients in the aspirin group, the aspirin use before VTE diagnosis may have little impact on their outcomes after VTE diagnosis. The last issue is that since the use of aspirin had failed in the primary thromboprophylaxis for the patients in the aspirin group, why did it succeed later in the secondary thromboprophylaxis for these patients? In our opinion, we deem that the synergistic effect produced by the joint use of aspirin and anticoagulant agents [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR28">28</xref>] may be the reason for this phenomenon.</p><p id="Par52">Although many studies have reported that taking aspirin has anticancer efficacy and can reduce cancer mortality, [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>] the use of adjuvant aspirin did not improve the 6-month all-cause mortality of cancer patients in this study. Our finding is consistent with that in the study of Chen et al., in which daily aspirin therapy did not improve the risk of cancer recurrence or survival in early follow-up of patients with high-risk nonmetastatic breast cancer. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>] Of note, the average follow-up time ranged from 4 to 12 years in the previous studies in which aspirin had anticancer efficacy, [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>] whereas were merely 34 months and 6 months in the study of Chen et al. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>] and in the current study, respectively. This may be the reason why aspirin did not improve the all-cause mortality in this study and in the study of Chen et al. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>]</p><p id="Par53">There was no significant difference in 6-month NCB comprising VTE recurrence, major bleeding, and all-cause mortality between the aspirin and non-aspirin groups in this study. Although the aspirin group had lower VTE recurrence rate, it had higher major bleeding rate and similar all-cause mortality rate, compared with the non-aspirin group. Accordingly, it is not surprising that there was no significant difference in NCB between the two groups. In addition, being inconsistent with the main findings, aspirin did not improve VTE recurrence or PE-related mortality rates for the patients in the PE subgroup. Of note, unlike the overall patient population, the baseline characteristics did not match very well between the aspirin and non-aspirin groups in the PE subgroup. So this result needs to be interpreted with caution.</p><p id="Par54">The clinical implication of the current findings needs to be interpreted carefully. In terms of reducing short-term VTE recurrence and PE-related mortality rates alone, it is recommended to use aspirin on the basis of conventional anticoagulants in patients with cancer-associated VTE. However, in terms of reducing short-term all-cause mortality, major bleeding incidence, and improving NCB, the use of aspirin on the basis of conventional anticoagulants does not benefit, or even harm patients with cancer-associated VTE. In summary, caution should be exercised when using aspirin as an adjuvant therapy for improving the short-term outcomes of cancer-associated VTE patients, weighing pros and cons, in order to maximize the benefits to patients.</p><sec id="Sec14"><title>Limitations</title><p id="Par55">There are some limitations that must be acknowledged in this study. First, although PSM was used in this study, the retrospective assessment of drug efficacy is subject to inherent biases such as potential between-group imbalance that prevents definitive conclusions. Instead, the current study should be considered as a hypothesis-generating pilot study for the randomized controlled trials (RCTs) warranted in the future. Second, due to the relatively small sample size of this study, if the patients are divided into subgroups based on different cancer types representing different VTE risks, the sample size in each subgroup would be inconsiderable. Therefore, subgroup analysis based on cancer types was not conducted in the current study. Third, the follow-up procedures were not standardized across centers, which is common in retrospective studies even in some multicenter prospective studies. Nevertheless, the basic principles for the follow-up of patients with cancer-associated VTE in the medical centers were all in line with the guidelines. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>] Fourth, since most of the patients in the aspirin group had comorbidities of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases, while those in the non-aspirin group did not, it is impracticable to eliminate this bias with PSM, otherwise the sample size would be greatly shrunk. It would be best to eliminate this confounding factor in the future RCTs. However, apart from cardiovascular and cerebrovascular comorbidities, other confounding factors were well matched between the two groups. Fifth, the long-term aspirin use among the patients in the aspirin group may have certain impact on the results. It may be necessary to select patients without a history of aspirin use for the validation of current findings in the future RCTs. Sixth, the follow-up period of this study was 6 months, since the initial treatment course for cancer-associated VTE is usually 6 months. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>] In this context, the impact of aspirin on the long-term outcomes of cancer-associated VTE patients 6 months after VTE diagnosis is currently unknown. Seventh, although the definition of NCB in the current study is conventional, it could be flawed in cancer patients who have relatively high mortality rate. Incorporating all-cause death into the NCB does not allow for the assessment of potential competing risks between fatal and non-fatal events. However, NCB was merely the tertiary outcome in the current study. Last, due to the high usage rate of DOACs and low usage rate of low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) and vitamin K antagonist (VKA) for the first 6-month treatment of cancer-associated VTE in China, all patients in this study received DOACs anticoagulant therapy. Therefore, caution should be exercised when extrapolating the current findings to cancer-associated VTE patients receiving LMWH and VKA.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec15"><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par56">In conclusion, this study indicates for the first time that the adjuvant use of low-dose aspirin based on conventional anticoagulants reduces short-term VTE recurrence and PE-related mortality rates in patients with cancer-associated VTE, compared with using isolated anticoagulants. However, the joint use of low-dose aspirin and conventional anticoagulants cannot improve short-term all-cause mortality rate or net clinical benefit. Adjuvant low-dose aspirin use is associated with an increased risk of bleeding. The current findings may provide a new treatment method for adjuvant therapy of patients with cancer-associated VTE. Relevant RCTs could be warranted in the future.</p></sec><sec id="Sec16" sec-type="supplementary-material"><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>
<supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM1"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4284_MOESM1_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Additional file 1: Figs. S1&#x02013;S3. Fig. S1 Love plot demonstrating absolute standardized mean difference between aspirin and non-aspirin groups before and after PSM. Fig. S2 Comparison of time-dependent all-cause mortality between aspirin and non-aspirin groups. Fig. S3 Comparison of time-dependent major bleeding between aspirin and non-aspirin groups.&#x000a0;</p></caption></media></supplementary-material><supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM2"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4284_MOESM2_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Additional file 2:&#x000a0;Tables S1 and S2.</p></caption></media></supplementary-material></p></sec></body><back><glossary><title>Abbreviations</title><def-list><def-item><term>VTE</term><def><p id="Par15">Venous thromboembolism</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>NCB</term><def><p id="Par16">Net clinical benefit</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>HR</term><def><p id="Par17">Hazard ratio</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PE</term><def><p id="Par18">Pulmonary embolism</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>DVT</term><def><p id="Par19">Deep vein thrombosis</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ICD-10</term><def><p id="Par20">International Classification of Diseases, 10th revision</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CUS</term><def><p id="Par21">Compression ultrasonography</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CTPA</term><def><p id="Par22">Computed tomography pulmonary angiography</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>V/Q</term><def><p id="Par23">Planar ventilation/perfusion</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>DOACs</term><def><p id="Par24">Direct oral anticoagulants</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CSCO</term><def><p id="Par25">Chinese Society of Clinical Oncology</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CTED</term><def><p id="Par26">Chronic thromboembolic disease</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>STROBE</term><def><p id="Par27">Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CI</term><def><p id="Par28">Confidence intervals</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PSM</term><def><p id="Par29">Propensity score matching</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>RCTs</term><def><p id="Par30">Randomized controlled trials</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>LMWH</term><def><p id="Par31">Low molecular weight heparin</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>VKA</term><def><p id="Par32">Vitamin K antagonist</p></def></def-item></def-list></glossary><fn-group><fn><p><bold>Publisher's Note</bold></p><p>Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.</p></fn></fn-group><ack><title>Acknowledgements</title><p>The authors are grateful to all the patients being studied.</p></ack><notes notes-type="author-contribution"><title>Authors&#x02019;&#x000a0;contributions
</title><p>Concept and design: W.X. Acquisition, analysis, or interpretation of data: W.X.; Z.D.; Y.C.; X.S.; Q.Y.; J.Q.; M.X.; F.H.; X.G.;Y.L. Drafting of the manuscript: Y.L.; W.X. Critical review of the manuscript for important intellectual content: W.X.; Z.D.; Y.C.; X.S.; Q.Y.; J.Q.; M.X.; F.H.; X.G.;Y.L. Statistical analysis: W.X. Administrative, technical, or material support: W.X.; Z.D.; Y.C.; X.S.; Q.Y.; J.Q.; M.X.; F.H.; X.G.;Y.L. Supervision: W.X.; Y.L.</p></notes><notes notes-type="funding-information"><title>Funding</title><p>This work was supported by the international talent training program of Shanghai Xinhua Hospital (2023YGJRC04).</p></notes><notes notes-type="data-availability"><title>Data availability
</title><p>Data are available upon reasonable request.</p></notes><notes><title>Declarations</title><notes id="FPar1"><title>Ethics approval and consent to participate</title><p id="Par57">The current study protocol was approved by the institutional review board of Shanghai Xinhua Hospital (approval number: XHEC-QT-2021&#x02013;056). Written informed consent from the participants or their next of kin was waived due to: (1) the study involves no more than minimal risk for patients; (2) the study cannot adversely affect the rights and welfare of patients; (3) the study cannot be performed without the exemption of informed consent of patients.</p></notes><notes id="FPar2"><title>Consent for publication</title><p id="Par58">Not applicable.</p></notes><notes id="FPar3" notes-type="COI-statement"><title>Competing interests
</title><p id="Par59">The authors declare no competing interests.</p></notes></notes><ref-list id="Bib1"><title>References
</title><ref id="CR1"><label>1.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR1" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Miller</surname><given-names>KD</given-names></name><name><surname>Nogueira</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Devasia</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Cancer treatment and survivorship statistics, 2022</article-title><source>CA Cancer J Clin</source><year>2022</year><volume>72</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>409</fpage><lpage>36</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35736631</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR1" publication-type="journal">Miller KD, Nogueira L, Devasia T, et al. Cancer treatment and survivorship statistics, 2022. CA Cancer J Clin. 2022;72(5):409&#x02013;36.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35736631</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR2"><label>2.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR2" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Streiff</surname><given-names>MB</given-names></name><name><surname>Holmstrom</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Angelini</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Cancer-associated venous thromboembolic disease, version 2.2021, NCCN clinical practice guidelines in oncology</article-title><source>J Natl Compr Canc Netw.</source><year>2021</year><volume>19</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>1181</fpage><lpage>1201</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34666313</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR2" publication-type="journal">Streiff MB, Holmstrom B, Angelini D, et al. Cancer-associated venous thromboembolic disease, version 2.2021, NCCN clinical practice guidelines in oncology. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2021;19(10):1181&#x02013;201.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34666313</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR3"><label>3.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR3" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Farge</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Frere</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Connors</surname><given-names>JM</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>2022 international clinical practice guidelines for the treatment and prophylaxis of venous thromboembolism in patients with cancer, including patients with COVID-19</article-title><source>Lancet Oncol</source><year>2022</year><volume>23</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>e334</fpage><lpage>e347</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35772465</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR3" publication-type="journal">Farge D, Frere C, Connors JM, et al. 2022 international clinical practice guidelines for the treatment and prophylaxis of venous thromboembolism in patients with cancer, including patients with COVID-19. Lancet Oncol. 2022;23(7):e334&#x02013;47.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35772465</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR4"><label>4.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR4" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Key</surname><given-names>NS</given-names></name><name><surname>Khorana</surname><given-names>AA</given-names></name><name><surname>Kuderer</surname><given-names>NM</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Venous thromboembolism prophylaxis and treatment in patients with cancer: ASCO clinical practice guideline update</article-title><source>J Clin Oncol</source><year>2020</year><volume>38</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>496</fpage><lpage>520</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31381464</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR4" publication-type="journal">Key NS, Khorana AA, Kuderer NM, et al. Venous thromboembolism prophylaxis and treatment in patients with cancer: ASCO clinical practice guideline update. J Clin Oncol. 2020;38(5):496&#x02013;520.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31381464</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR5"><label>5.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR5" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Falanga</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Ay</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Di Nisio</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Venous thromboembolism in cancer patients: ESMO clinical practice guideline</article-title><source>Ann Oncol</source><year>2023</year><volume>34</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>452</fpage><lpage>67</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36638869</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR5" publication-type="journal">Falanga A, Ay C, Di Nisio M, et al. Venous thromboembolism in cancer patients: ESMO clinical practice guideline. Ann Oncol. 2023;34(5):452&#x02013;67.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36638869</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR6"><label>6.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR6" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Farge</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Debourdeau</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Beckers</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>International clinical practice guidelines for the treatment and prophylaxis of venous thromboembolism in patients with cancer</article-title><source>J Thromb Haemost</source><year>2013</year><volume>11</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>56</fpage><lpage>70</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23217107</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR6" publication-type="journal">Farge D, Debourdeau P, Beckers M, et al. International clinical practice guidelines for the treatment and prophylaxis of venous thromboembolism in patients with cancer. J Thromb Haemost. 2013;11(1):56&#x02013;70.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23217107</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR7"><label>7.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR7" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Ning</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Aspirin is associated with reduced rates of venous thromboembolism in older patients with cancer</article-title><source>J Cardiovasc Pharmacol Ther</source><year>2020</year><volume>25</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>456</fpage><lpage>465</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32400177</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR7" publication-type="journal">Li P, Ning Y, Li M, et al. Aspirin is associated with reduced rates of venous thromboembolism in older patients with cancer. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol Ther. 2020;25(5):456&#x02013;65.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32400177</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR8"><label>8.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR8" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Curigliano</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Balduzzi</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Cardillo</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Low-dose aspirin for the prevention of venous thromboembolism in breast cancer patients treated with infusional chemotherapy after insertion of central vein catheter</article-title><source>Support Care Cancer</source><year>2007</year><volume>15</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>1213</fpage><lpage>1217</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17578607</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR8" publication-type="journal">Curigliano G, Balduzzi A, Cardillo A, et al. Low-dose aspirin for the prevention of venous thromboembolism in breast cancer patients treated with infusional chemotherapy after insertion of central vein catheter. Support Care Cancer. 2007;15(10):1213&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17578607</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR9"><label>9.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR9" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Simon</surname><given-names>TG</given-names></name><name><surname>Duberg</surname><given-names>AS</given-names></name><name><surname>Aleman</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Chung</surname><given-names>RT</given-names></name><name><surname>Chan</surname><given-names>AT</given-names></name><name><surname>Ludvigsson</surname><given-names>JF</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Association of aspirin with hepatocellular carcinoma and liver-related mortality</article-title><source>N Engl J Med</source><year>2020</year><volume>382</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>1018</fpage><lpage>1028</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32160663</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR9" publication-type="journal">Simon TG, Duberg AS, Aleman S, Chung RT, Chan AT, Ludvigsson JF. Association of aspirin with hepatocellular carcinoma and liver-related mortality. N Engl J Med. 2020;382(11):1018&#x02013;28.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32160663</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR10"><label>10.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR10" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Rothwell</surname><given-names>PM</given-names></name><name><surname>Price</surname><given-names>JF</given-names></name><name><surname>Fowkes</surname><given-names>FG</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Short-term effects of daily aspirin on cancer incidence, mortality, and non-vascular death: analysis of the time course of risks and benefits in 51 randomised controlled trials</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2012</year><volume>379</volume><issue>9826</issue><fpage>1602</fpage><lpage>12</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22440946</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR10" publication-type="journal">Rothwell PM, Price JF, Fowkes FG, et al. Short-term effects of daily aspirin on cancer incidence, mortality, and non-vascular death: analysis of the time course of risks and benefits in 51 randomised controlled trials. Lancet. 2012;379(9826):1602&#x02013;12.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22440946</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR11"><label>11.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR11" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Rothwell</surname><given-names>PM</given-names></name><name><surname>Wilson</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Price</surname><given-names>JF</given-names></name><name><surname>Belch</surname><given-names>JF</given-names></name><name><surname>Meade</surname><given-names>TW</given-names></name><name><surname>Mehta</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Effect of daily aspirin on risk of cancer metastasis: a study of incident cancers during randomised controlled trials</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2012</year><volume>379</volume><issue>9826</issue><fpage>1591</fpage><lpage>1601</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22440947</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR11" publication-type="journal">Rothwell PM, Wilson M, Price JF, Belch JF, Meade TW, Mehta Z. Effect of daily aspirin on risk of cancer metastasis: a study of incident cancers during randomised controlled trials. Lancet. 2012;379(9826):1591&#x02013;601.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22440947</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR12"><label>12.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR12" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Chan</surname><given-names>AT</given-names></name><name><surname>Ogino</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Fuchs</surname><given-names>CS</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Aspirin use and survival after diagnosis of colorectal cancer</article-title><source>JAMA</source><year>2009</year><volume>302</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>649</fpage><lpage>658</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">19671906</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR12" publication-type="journal">Chan AT, Ogino S, Fuchs CS. Aspirin use and survival after diagnosis of colorectal cancer. JAMA. 2009;302(6):649&#x02013;58.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">19671906</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR13"><label>13.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR13" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Brighton</surname><given-names>TA</given-names></name><name><surname>Eikelboom</surname><given-names>JW</given-names></name><name><surname>Mann</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Low-dose aspirin for preventing recurrent venous thromboembolism</article-title><source>N Engl J Med</source><year>2012</year><volume>367</volume><issue>21</issue><fpage>1979</fpage><lpage>1987</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23121403</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR13" publication-type="journal">Brighton TA, Eikelboom JW, Mann K, et al. Low-dose aspirin for preventing recurrent venous thromboembolism. N Engl J Med. 2012;367(21):1979&#x02013;87.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23121403</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR14"><label>14.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR14" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Castellucci</surname><given-names>LA</given-names></name><name><surname>Cameron</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Le Gal</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Efficacy and safety outcomes of oral anticoagulants and antiplatelet drugs in the secondary prevention of venous thromboembolism: systematic review and network meta-analysis</article-title><source>BMJ</source><year>2013</year><volume>347</volume><fpage>f5133</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23996149</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR14" publication-type="journal">Castellucci LA, Cameron C, Le Gal G, et al. Efficacy and safety outcomes of oral anticoagulants and antiplatelet drugs in the secondary prevention of venous thromboembolism: systematic review and network meta-analysis. BMJ. 2013;347: f5133.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23996149</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR15"><label>15.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR15" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Agnelli</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Becattini</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Meyer</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Apixaban for the treatment of venous thromboembolism associated with cancer</article-title><source>N Engl J Med</source><year>2020</year><volume>382</volume><issue>17</issue><fpage>1599</fpage><lpage>1607</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32223112</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR15" publication-type="journal">Agnelli G, Becattini C, Meyer G, et al. Apixaban for the treatment of venous thromboembolism associated with cancer. N Engl J Med. 2020;382(17):1599&#x02013;607.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32223112</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR16"><label>16.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR16" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Konstantinides</surname><given-names>SV</given-names></name><name><surname>Meyer</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Becattini</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>2019 ESC guidelines for the diagnosis and management of acute pulmonary embolism developed in collaboration with the European Respiratory Society (ERS)</article-title><source>Eur Heart J</source><year>2020</year><volume>41</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>543</fpage><lpage>603</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31504429</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR16" publication-type="journal">Konstantinides SV, Meyer G, Becattini C, et al. 2019 ESC guidelines for the diagnosis and management of acute pulmonary embolism developed in collaboration with the European Respiratory Society (ERS). Eur Heart J. 2020;41(4):543&#x02013;603.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31504429</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR17"><label>17.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR17" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Stevens</surname><given-names>SM</given-names></name><name><surname>Woller</surname><given-names>SC</given-names></name><name><surname>Kreuziger</surname><given-names>LB</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Antithrombotic therapy for VTE disease: second update of the CHEST guideline and expert panel report</article-title><source>Chest</source><year>2021</year><volume>160</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>e545</fpage><lpage>e608</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34352278</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR17" publication-type="journal">Stevens SM, Woller SC, Kreuziger LB, et al. Antithrombotic therapy for VTE disease: second update of the CHEST guideline and expert panel report. Chest. 2021;160(6):e545&#x02013;608.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34352278</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR18"><label>18.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR18" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lyman</surname><given-names>GH</given-names></name><name><surname>Carrier</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Ay</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>American Society of Hematology 2021 guidelines for management of venous thromboembolism: prevention and treatment in patients with cancer</article-title><source>Blood Adv</source><year>2021</year><volume>5</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>927</fpage><lpage>974</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33570602</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR18" publication-type="journal">Lyman GH, Carrier M, Ay C, et al. American Society of Hematology 2021 guidelines for management of venous thromboembolism: prevention and treatment in patients with cancer. Blood Adv. 2021;5(4):927&#x02013;74.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33570602</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR19"><label>19.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR19" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Klok</surname><given-names>FA</given-names></name><name><surname>Ageno</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Ay</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Optimal follow-up after acute pulmonary embolism: a position paper of the European Society of Cardiology Working Group on Pulmonary Circulation and Right Ventricular Function, in collaboration with the European Society of Cardiology Working Group on Atherosclerosis and Vascular Biology, endorsed by the European Respiratory Society</article-title><source>Eur Heart J</source><year>2022</year><volume>43</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>183</fpage><lpage>9</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34875048</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR19" publication-type="journal">Klok FA, Ageno W, Ay C, et al. Optimal follow-up after acute pulmonary embolism: a position paper of the European Society of Cardiology Working Group on Pulmonary Circulation and Right Ventricular Function, in collaboration with the European Society of Cardiology Working Group on Atherosclerosis and Vascular Biology, endorsed by the European Respiratory Society. Eur Heart J. 2022;43(3):183&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34875048</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR20"><label>20.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR20" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lim</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Le Gal</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Bates</surname><given-names>SM</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>American Society of Hematology 2018 guidelines for management of venous thromboembolism: diagnosis of venous thromboembolism</article-title><source>Blood Adv</source><year>2018</year><volume>2</volume><issue>22</issue><fpage>3226</fpage><lpage>3256</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30482764</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR20" publication-type="journal">Lim W, Le Gal G, Bates SM, et al. American Society of Hematology 2018 guidelines for management of venous thromboembolism: diagnosis of venous thromboembolism. Blood Adv. 2018;2(22):3226&#x02013;56.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30482764</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR21"><label>21.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR21" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Tritschler</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Kraaijpoel</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Girard</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Definition of pulmonary embolism-related death and classification of the cause of death in venous thromboembolism studies: communication from the SSC of the ISTH</article-title><source>J Thromb Haemost</source><year>2020</year><volume>18</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>1495</fpage><lpage>500</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32496023</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR21" publication-type="journal">Tritschler T, Kraaijpoel N, Girard P, et al. Definition of pulmonary embolism-related death and classification of the cause of death in venous thromboembolism studies: communication from the SSC of the ISTH. J Thromb Haemost. 2020;18(6):1495&#x02013;500.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32496023</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR22"><label>22.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR22" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Schulman</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Kearon</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><collab>Subcommittee on Control of Anticoagulation of the Scientific and Standardization Committee of the International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis</collab></person-group><article-title>Definition of major bleeding in clinical investigations of antihemostatic medicinal products in non-surgical patients</article-title><source>J Thromb Haemost</source><year>2005</year><volume>3</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>692</fpage><lpage>4</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15842354</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR22" publication-type="journal">Schulman S, Kearon C, Subcommittee on Control of Anticoagulation of the Scientific and Standardization Committee of the International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis. Definition of major bleeding in clinical investigations of antihemostatic medicinal products in non-surgical patients. J Thromb Haemost. 2005;3(4):692&#x02013;4.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15842354</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR23"><label>23.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR23" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>von Elm</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Altman</surname><given-names>DG</given-names></name><name><surname>Egger</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The strengthening the reporting of observational studies in epidemiology (STROBE) statement: guidelines for reporting observational studies</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2007</year><volume>370</volume><issue>9596</issue><fpage>1453</fpage><lpage>7</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18064739</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR23" publication-type="journal">von Elm E, Altman DG, Egger M, et al. The strengthening the reporting of observational studies in epidemiology (STROBE) statement: guidelines for reporting observational studies. Lancet. 2007;370(9596):1453&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18064739</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR24"><label>24.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR24" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Austin</surname><given-names>PC</given-names></name><name><surname>Latouche</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Fine</surname><given-names>JP</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>A review of the use of time-varying covariates in the Fine-Gray subdistribution hazard competing risk regression model</article-title><source>Stat Med</source><year>2020</year><volume>39</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>103</fpage><lpage>113</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31660633</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR24" publication-type="journal">Austin PC, Latouche A, Fine JP. A review of the use of time-varying covariates in the Fine-Gray subdistribution hazard competing risk regression model. Stat Med. 2020;39(2):103&#x02013;13.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31660633</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR25"><label>25.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR25" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Thomas</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Pencina</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Using propensity score methods to create target populations in observational clinical research</article-title><source>JAMA</source><year>2020</year><volume>323</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>466</fpage><lpage>467</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31922529</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR25" publication-type="journal">Thomas L, Li F, Pencina M. Using propensity score methods to create target populations in observational clinical research. JAMA. 2020;323(5):466&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31922529</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR26"><label>26.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR26" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Austin</surname><given-names>PC</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Optimal caliper widths for propensity-score matching when estimating differences in means and differences in proportions in observational studies</article-title><source>Pharm Stat</source><year>2011</year><volume>10</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>150</fpage><lpage>161</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20925139</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR26" publication-type="journal">Austin PC. Optimal caliper widths for propensity-score matching when estimating differences in means and differences in proportions in observational studies. Pharm Stat. 2011;10(2):150&#x02013;61.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20925139</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR27"><label>27.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR27" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Mendez</surname><given-names>GM</given-names></name><name><surname>Patel</surname><given-names>YM</given-names></name><name><surname>Ricketti</surname><given-names>DA</given-names></name><name><surname>Gaughan</surname><given-names>JP</given-names></name><name><surname>Lackman</surname><given-names>RD</given-names></name><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>TWB</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Aspirin for prophylaxis against venous thromboembolism after orthopaedic oncologic surgery</article-title><source>J Bone Joint Surg Am</source><year>2017</year><volume>99</volume><issue>23</issue><fpage>2004</fpage><lpage>2010</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29206790</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR27" publication-type="journal">Mendez GM, Patel YM, Ricketti DA, Gaughan JP, Lackman RD, Kim TWB. Aspirin for prophylaxis against venous thromboembolism after orthopaedic oncologic surgery. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2017;99(23):2004&#x02013;10.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29206790</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR28"><label>28.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR28" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Konishi</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Hiroe</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Kawamura</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Synergistic effect of a factor Xa inhibitor, TAK-442, and antiplatelet agents on whole blood coagulation and arterial thrombosis in rats</article-title><source>Thromb Res</source><year>2010</year><volume>126</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>124</fpage><lpage>129</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20452654</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR28" publication-type="journal">Konishi N, Hiroe K, Kawamura M. Synergistic effect of a factor Xa inhibitor, TAK-442, and antiplatelet agents on whole blood coagulation and arterial thrombosis in rats. Thromb Res. 2010;126(2):124&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20452654</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR29"><label>29.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR29" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Tsoi</surname><given-names>KKF</given-names></name><name><surname>Ho</surname><given-names>JMW</given-names></name><name><surname>Chan</surname><given-names>FCH</given-names></name><name><surname>Sung</surname><given-names>JJY</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Long-term use of low-dose aspirin for cancer prevention: a 10-year population cohort study in Hong Kong</article-title><source>Int J Cancer</source><year>2019</year><volume>145</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>267</fpage><lpage>273</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30575949</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR29" publication-type="journal">Tsoi KKF, Ho JMW, Chan FCH, Sung JJY. Long-term use of low-dose aspirin for cancer prevention: a 10-year population cohort study in Hong Kong. Int J Cancer. 2019;145(1):267&#x02013;73.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30575949</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR30"><label>30.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR30" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>WY</given-names></name><name><surname>Ballman</surname><given-names>KV</given-names></name><name><surname>Partridge</surname><given-names>AH</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Aspirin vs placebo as adjuvant therapy for breast cancer: the Alliance A011502 randomized trial</article-title><source>JAMA</source><year>2024</year><volume>331</volume><issue>20</issue><fpage>1714</fpage><lpage>1721</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38683596</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR30" publication-type="journal">Chen WY, Ballman KV, Partridge AH, et al. Aspirin vs placebo as adjuvant therapy for breast cancer: the Alliance A011502 randomized trial. JAMA. 2024;331(20):1714&#x02013;21.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38683596</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref></ref-list></back></article>