# Dynamic OGTT-derived C-peptide trajectories for metabolic heterogeneity and adverse pregnancy outcomes in gestational diabetes mellitus: a nested case‒control study.

<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//NLM//DTD JATS (Z39.96) Journal Archiving and Interchange DTD with MathML3 v1.3 20210610//EN" "JATS-archivearticle1-3-mathml3.dtd"> 
<article xmlns:ali="http://www.niso.org/schemas/ali/1.0/" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" article-type="research-article" dtd-version="1.3"><?properties open_access?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierValue -//Springer-Verlag//DTD A++ V2.4//EN?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierType public?><?SourceDTD.DTDName A++V2.4.dtd?><?SourceDTD.Version 2.4?><?ConverterInfo.XSLTName springer2nlmx2.xsl?><?ConverterInfo.Version 1?><processing-meta base-tagset="archiving" mathml-version="3.0" table-model="xhtml" tagset-family="jats"><restricted-by>pmc</restricted-by></processing-meta><front><journal-meta><journal-id journal-id-type="nlm-ta">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-id journal-id-type="iso-abbrev">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-title-group><journal-title>BMC Medicine</journal-title></journal-title-group><issn pub-type="epub">1741-7015</issn><publisher><publisher-name>BioMed Central</publisher-name><publisher-loc>London</publisher-loc></publisher></journal-meta>
<article-meta><article-id pub-id-type="pmcid">12366374</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="pmid">40830961</article-id>
<article-id pub-id-type="publisher-id">4281</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12916-025-04281-x</article-id><article-categories><subj-group subj-group-type="heading"><subject>Research</subject></subj-group></article-categories><title-group><article-title>Dynamic OGTT-derived C-peptide trajectories for metabolic heterogeneity and adverse pregnancy outcomes in gestational diabetes mellitus: a nested case&#x02012;control study</article-title></title-group><contrib-group><contrib contrib-type="author" equal-contrib="yes"><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Xinyue</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" equal-contrib="yes"><name><surname>He</surname><given-names>Zhangya</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Ji</surname><given-names>Jing</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Simin</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>Jinglin</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Jiahui</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Yu</surname><given-names>Wenlu</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>Hexiang</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Han</surname><given-names>Zhen</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff4">4</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Mi</surname><given-names>Yang</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Luo</surname><given-names>Xiaoqin</given-names></name><address><email>luoxiaoqin2012@mail.xjtu.edu.cn</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff5">5</xref></contrib><aff id="Aff1"><label>1</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/017zhmm22</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.43169.39</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 0599 1243</institution-id><institution>Department of Nutrition and Food Safety, School of Public Health, </institution><institution>Xi&#x02019;an Jiaotong University, </institution></institution-wrap>Xi&#x02019;an, 710061 China </aff><aff id="Aff2"><label>2</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/00wydr975</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.440257.0</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 1758 3118</institution-id><institution>Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, </institution><institution>Northwest Women and Children&#x02019;s Hospital, </institution></institution-wrap>Xi&#x02019;an, 710061 China </aff><aff id="Aff3"><label>3</label>Department of Maternal and Child Health, Xianyang Maternal and Child Health Hospital, Xianyang, 712000 China </aff><aff id="Aff4"><label>4</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/02tbvhh96</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.452438.c</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 1760 8119</institution-id><institution>Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, </institution><institution>The First Affiliated Hospital of Xi&#x02019;an Jiaotong University, </institution></institution-wrap>Xi&#x02019;an, 710061 China </aff><aff id="Aff5"><label>5</label>Key Laboratory for Disease Prevention and Control and Health Promotion of Shaanxi Province, Xi&#x02019;an, 710061 China </aff></contrib-group><pub-date pub-type="epub"><day>20</day><month>8</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="pmc-release"><day>20</day><month>8</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="collection"><year>2025</year></pub-date><volume>23</volume><elocation-id>482</elocation-id><history><date date-type="received"><day>26</day><month>3</month><year>2025</year></date><date date-type="accepted"><day>15</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></date></history><permissions><copyright-statement>&#x000a9; The Author(s) 2025</copyright-statement><copyright-year>2025</copyright-year><license><ali:license_ref specific-use="textmining" content-type="ccbyncndlicense">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ali:license_ref><license-p><bold>Open Access</bold> This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed material. You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/">http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ext-link>.</license-p></license></permissions><abstract id="Abs1"><sec><title>Background</title><p id="Par8">Existing diagnostic criteria for gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) rely solely on glucose thresholds, which are insufficient to capture metabolic heterogeneity. We aimed to evaluate the role of C-peptide measured during the oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) in assisting the development of stratified treatment strategies and predicting the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes.</p></sec><sec><title>Methods</title><p id="Par9">This nested case&#x02013;control study conducted within the Xi&#x02019;an Longitudinal Mother&#x02013;Child Cohort included 1014 pregnant women with GDM and 1014 without GDM (non-GDM) who delivered singleton live-born infants between January 1, 2017, and December 31, 2018. C-peptide levels were measured at three intervals during the OGTT. Latent class trajectory modeling was used to identify distinct C-peptide trajectories, and logistic regression was used to assess their associations with adverse fetal and maternal outcomes.</p></sec><sec><title>Results</title><p id="Par10">Two principal C-peptide trajectories were identified in GDM despite similar glucose profiles. GDM Class 1 (771, 76.04%) presented a delayed 120-min C-peptide peak and poorer beta-cell secretion, whereas GDM Class 2 (243, 23.96%) presented a sharp 60-min peak followed by a decline and significantly increased insulin resistance, with greater risks of delivering large for gestational age (LGA) (adjusted odds ratio (aOR), 1.52; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.07&#x02013;2.15) and macrosomia (aOR, 1.83; 95% CI, 1.13&#x02013;2.97). Surprisingly, 21.7% (220) of the non-GDM group had a high C-peptide response associated with elevated preeclampsia risk (aOR, 2.91; 95% CI, 1.25&#x02013;6.74).</p></sec><sec><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par11">Dynamic OGTT-derived C-peptide trajectories revealed clinically significant metabolic subgroups of GDM that were obscured by glucose-only diagnostics, with the predominantly insulin-resistant Class being at higher risk of fetal overgrowth.</p></sec><sec><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12916-025-04281-x.</p></sec></abstract><kwd-group xml:lang="en"><title>Keywords</title><kwd>Gestational diabetes mellitus</kwd><kwd>C-peptide</kwd><kwd>Latent class trajectory analysis</kwd><kwd>Beta-cell function</kwd><kwd>Insulin resistance</kwd></kwd-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="FundRef">https://doi.org/10.13039/501100001809</institution-id><institution>National Natural Science Foundation of China</institution></institution-wrap></funding-source><award-id>81874263</award-id></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>Key Special Project of the Development Center for Medical Science &#x00026; Technology of the National Health Commission of the People&#x02019;s Republic of China</institution></funding-source><award-id>W2015CAE060</award-id></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>Social development in key industry innovation chains</institution></funding-source><award-id>2021ZDLSF02-14</award-id></award-group></funding-group><custom-meta-group><custom-meta><meta-name>issue-copyright-statement</meta-name><meta-value>&#x000a9; BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2025</meta-value></custom-meta></custom-meta-group></article-meta></front><body><sec id="Sec1"><title>Background</title><p id="Par27">Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is characterized by glucose intolerance first identified during pregnancy [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>]. Affecting 14.7% (14.7&#x02013;14.8%) of pregnancies in the Western Pacific region [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>], GDM is strongly associated with adverse maternal and neonatal outcomes, including cesarean delivery, macrosomia, preeclampsia, and long-term metabolic dysfunction [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>]. Despite standardized diagnostic criteria, GDM represents a heterogeneous disorder [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>] with variable pathophysiology [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>]. Current diagnostic approach through oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) relies on static glucose thresholds and fails to capture dynamic metabolic dysregulation. These emphasize the need for biomarkers that reflect underlying insulin secretion and resistance.</p><p id="Par28">C-peptide, a cleavage product of proinsulin, is produced in equimolar amounts with insulin. Unlike insulin, C-peptide is not significantly cleared by the liver and can be used to assess endogenous insulin secretion capacity. In contrast to insulin, C-peptide exhibits minimal hepatic extraction (approximately 5&#x02013;10%), with a half-life of 20&#x02013;30&#x000a0;min, making it a more reliable indicator for assessing endogenous insulin secretion capacity [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>]. Previous studies showed that fasting serum C-peptide in the first and second trimesters was associated with the risk of developing GDM [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>], and the accuracy of fasting C-peptide to predict GDM with pharmacotherapy was superior to other traditional risk factors, such as prepregnancy BMI [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>]. Likewise, postpartum cord blood C-peptide levels were elevated in women with GDM and women delivering macrosomia [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>], and the risk of developing type 2 diabetes in women with previous GDM was associated with elevated postpartum fasting C-peptide but not with insulin levels [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>]. Additionally, metabolic indices incorporating C-peptide have revealed distinct GDM subtypes with unique physiological profiles and pregnancy outcomes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>]. These findings highlight the potential of C-peptide as a biomarker for improving pregnancy risk stratification and elucidating the heterogeneity of GDM pathophysiology.
</p><p id="Par29">However, most existing evidence has relied on traditional summary metrics or static comparisons, which can only provide overall secretion profiles or a static snapshot of beta-cell function. Dynamic fluctuations in insulin secretion during glucose challenge in GDM have not been fully characterized. The OGTT, which is routinely employed for diagnosing GDM [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>], provides a unique yet underexploited opportunity to measure C-peptide at fasting, 1-h, and 2-h intervals. Based on this, it is possible not only to evaluate the different dynamic responses to insulin secretion but also not to increase unnecessary blood draws in patients. Recently, latent class trajectory modeling (LCTM) has been recognized as a valuable method for providing pathophysiological insights to effectively stratify glucose metabolism characteristics in non-diabetic and obese populations [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>] but not currently in women with GDM. Therefore, with LCTM, we aimed to identify distinct C-peptide trajectories of women with GDM during OGTT and evaluate the associations with maternal and neonatal adverse outcomes to assist in precision clinical management.</p></sec><sec id="Sec2"><title>Methods</title><sec id="Sec3"><title>Study design and population</title><p id="Par30">This nested case&#x02013;control study was based on the Xi&#x02019;an Longitudinal Mother&#x02013;Infant Cohort (XAMC), a prospective cohort established in 2013 in Northwest China to investigate pregnancy outcomes in women enrolled before 20&#x000a0;weeks of gestation [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>]. We included participants with complete longitudinal electronic health records from preconception to delivery from January 2017 to December 2018. Exclusion criteria included artificial fertilization, multiple pregnancies, abortion, stillbirths, delivery before 28&#x000a0;weeks of gestation, pre-existing type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus, and any severe systemic diseases such as cancer, chronic renal failure, severe anemia, immune disorders, or other endocrine disorders. From this cohort, 1014 women diagnosed with GDM according to the International Association of Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Groups (IADPSG) criteria were included as cases. Controls (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;1014) with normal glucose tolerance were selected through 1:1 matching by delivery time (Additional file 1: Fig. S1). The diagnosis of GDM was confirmed via a standardized 75-g 2-h OGTT between 24 and 28th weeks of gestation [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>], with a fasting plasma glucose (FPG) level of&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;5.1&#x000a0;mmol/L, a 1-h blood glucose level&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;10.0&#x000a0;mmol/L, or a 2-h blood glucose level&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;8.5&#x000a0;mmol/L [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>].</p><p id="Par31">This study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and received ethical approval from the Ethics Committee of Xi&#x02019;an Jiaotong University (XJTU 2016-053) and the Ethics Committee of Northwest Women and Children&#x02019;s Hospital (NWCH 2012-013). All participants provided written informed consent upon recruitment.</p></sec><sec id="Sec4"><title>Laboratory tests and the calculation of glucometabolic parameters</title><p id="Par32">The OGTT was conducted in the morning after 8&#x02013;12&#x000a0;h of fasting. Venous blood samples were collected at three time points: fasting (0&#x000a0;h), 1&#x000a0;h, and 2&#x000a0;h after glucose loading, and measured for glucose, insulin, and C-peptide levels. Glucose levels were measured using the hexokinase method on an AU5800 clinical chemistry analyzer (Beckman Coulter Inc., USA) with intra- and inter-assay coefficients of variation (CVs) of 0.8% and 1.2%, respectively. Insulin and C-peptide levels were measured using electrochemiluminescent immunoassay kits (insulin, range 0.2&#x02013;1000 &#x000b5;IU/mL; C-peptide, range 0.010&#x02013;40.0&#x000a0;ng/mL) on a Cobas e 801 analyzer (Roche Diagnostics, Mannheim, Germany). The intra- and inter-assay CVs were 1.8% and 3.2% for insulin, and 1.8% and 3.5% for C-peptide, respectively. All laboratory measurements were performed in the hospital&#x02019;s accredited central laboratory following standard manufacturers&#x02019; protocols, with data extracted from the Hospital Information System (HIS).</p><p id="Par33">To characterize glucose metabolism dynamics, we calculated glucose composite indices. Insulin sensitivity and resistance were assessed by the homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>], quantitative sensitivity check indices for insulin (QUICKIi) and C-peptide (QUICKIc) and Matsuda index [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR21">21</xref>], whereas beta-cell function and insulin secretion were measured via homeostasis models assessment of beta-cell function (HOMA-B), insulin secretion-sensitivity index-2 (ISSI-2), and modified insulinogenic indices for insulin (IGIi) and C-peptide (IGIc) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR22">22</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>], the calculations of which are shown in the Additional file 1 (pp. 2).</p></sec><sec id="Sec5"><title>Covariates</title><p id="Par34">Maternal demographics and reproductive and medical histories were prospectively collected by physicians during enrollment interviews (&#x0003c;&#x02009;6&#x000a0;weeks of gestation) and established in records. Clinical test data, gestational and delivery records, and discharge diagnoses were extracted from HIS records. Prepregnancy BMI was calculated as weight (kg)/height<sup>2</sup> (m<sup>2</sup>), with overweight/obesity defined as&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;24&#x000a0;kg/m<sup>2</sup> per the Chinese criteria [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>]. In accordance with the <italic>Chinese Standard of Recommendation for Weight Gain During Pregnancy Period</italic> [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>], gestational weight gain (GWG) was classified as insufficient, adequate, or excessive (recommended GWG, 11&#x02013;16&#x000a0;kg for prepregnancy BMI&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;18.5&#x000a0;kg/m<sup>2</sup>; 8&#x02013;14&#x000a0;kg for 18.5&#x02009;&#x02264;&#x02009;BMI&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;24&#x000a0;kg/m<sup>2</sup>; 7&#x02013;11&#x000a0;kg for 24&#x02009;&#x02264;&#x02009;BMI&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;28&#x000a0;kg/m<sup>2</sup>; and 5&#x02013;9&#x000a0;kg for BMI&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;28&#x000a0;kg/m<sup>2</sup>). Parity was dichotomized as primiparous or multiparous. History of pregnancy loss was defined as any of the following events in previous pregnancies: spontaneous abortion, induced abortion, stillbirth, or fetal demise.</p></sec><sec id="Sec6"><title>Pregnancy outcomes</title><p id="Par35">The primary outcome was a composite of adverse fetal outcomes, defined as having at least one of the following outcomes: prematurity, macrosomia, low birth weight (LBW), small for gestational age (SGA), large for gestational age (LGA), fetal distress, and acute chorioamnionitis. Prematurity referred to infants born before 37&#x000a0;weeks of gestation. Neonates with a birth weight exceeding 4000&#x000a0;g or less than 2500&#x000a0;g were classified as having macrosomia or LBW<italic>,</italic> respectively. In accordance with the <italic>Chinese growth standard for newborns</italic> [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR26">26</xref>], infants with birth weights below the 10th percentile for gestational age were considered SGA, whereas those with birth weights above the 90th percentile for gestational age were considered LGA.</p><p id="Par36">The secondary outcomes were gestational metabolic diseases, including pregnancy-induced hypertension, preeclampsia, and thyroid dysfunctions, and the individual outcomes included in the primary outcome. Pregnancy-induced hypertension was defined as elevated blood pressure (&#x02265;&#x02009;140/90&#x000a0;mmHg) de novo after 20 gestational weeks without proteinuria [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR27">27</xref>]. Preeclampsia was defined as hypertension after 20&#x000a0;weeks accompanied by proteinuria or organ dysfunction [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR27">27</xref>]. Thyroid dysfunctions included hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, subclinical hypothyroidism, and Hashimoto&#x02019;s thyroiditis, diagnosed based on serum TSH and free T4 levels, and/or thyroid autoantibodies [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR28">28</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec7"><title>Statistical analysis</title><p id="Par37">Categorical variables were expressed as frequencies (%). Continuous variables were tested for normality using the Shapiro&#x02013;Wilk test and were presented as mean&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;standard deviation (SD) if normally distributed or as median with interquartile range (IQR) otherwise. Continuous variables were compared between the GDM and non-GDM groups via the Wilcoxon test or Student&#x02019;s <italic>t</italic> test and among groups stratified by age, prepregnancy BMI, and family history via the Kruskal&#x02012;Wallis test or analysis of variance. Categorical variables were analyzed by the <italic>chi-square</italic> test or Fisher&#x02019;s exact test. Spearman&#x02019;s correlation analysis was employed to assess correlations among glucose, C-peptide, and insulin levels given their non-normal distributions across all three time points.</p><p id="Par38">Latent class trajectory modeling was used to identify distinct C-peptide response trajectories in the GDM and non-GDM populations respectively, using fixed (group) and random (individual) effects. Potential categories of 1&#x02013;7 were modeled using a quadratic time term for 2&#x000a0;h C-peptide dynamics. Model selection relied on the Akaike information criterion (AIC), Bayesian information criterion (BIC), sample-size adjusted BIC (SABIC), and entropy values, with lower AIC/BIC/SABIC and higher entropy (closer to 1) indicating superior fit. Class membership probabilities were calculated for each participant to assign individuals to the most likely latent C-peptide response class. The optimal number of categories was determined on the basis of model fit metrics, class size and clinical interpretability, requiring an average posterior probability&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;0.7 and a category headcount ratio&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;0.2.</p><p id="Par39">After identifying the best-fitting model, we analyzed glucose metabolism profiles across the latent classes via the Kruskal&#x02013;Wallis and <italic>chi&#x02012;square</italic> tests, and predicted its risk factors by logistic regression. We also analyzed the association between latent classes and study outcomes by logistic regression and adjusted for covariates to calculate adjusted odds ratios (<italic>aOR</italic>s) and 95% confidence intervals (<italic>CIs</italic>). Three adjustment models were applied in the following order: Model 1, adjusted for prepregnancy BMI and family history of diabetes; Model 2, adjusted for maternal age, history of previous cesarean delivery, and history of pregnancy loss; and Model 3, adjusted for all the covariates adjusted for in Model 1 and Model 2. The LCTM was constructed in R version 4.0.2 (package &#x02018;lcmm&#x02019;), and the remaining analyses were performed with IBM SPSS Statistics 26. <italic>P values</italic> less than 0.05 (two-tailed) were considered statistically significant.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec8"><title>Results</title><p id="Par40">The study included 2028 women with a median maternal age of 30 (28, 34) years, gestational age at delivery of 39 (38, 40) weeks, and prepregnancy BMI of 21.4 (19.5, 23.6) kg/m<sup>2</sup>. Compared with the non-GDM group, the GDM group presented significantly higher maternal age, prepregnancy BMI, GWG, and family history of diabetes (all <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05). Among women with GDM, 84.7% (859) controlled their blood glucose through diet and/or exercise, and 4.5% (46) required insulin therapy. The primary outcome (any adverse neonatal outcome) occurred in 56.5% overall (GDM: 58.6%, non-GDM: 54.3%), and the prevalence of gestational metabolic diseases was 16.2% in both groups (Additional file 1: Table S1).</p><sec id="Sec9"><title>Glucose metabolism indicator profiles</title><p id="Par41">Compared with the non-GDM group, the GDM group exhibited significantly higher fasting, 60-min, and 120-min glucose, insulin, and C-peptide levels during the OGTT, along with higher areas under the curve (AUCs) for these indicators (all <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001; Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref>). The GDM group also presented lower QUICKIi, QUICKIc, Matsuda, IGIc, and ISSI-2 indices and higher HOMA-IR indices (all <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001). The correlations between C-peptide and insulin were stronger in the GDM group (Additional file 1: Table S2). Age-stratified analyses revealed that GDM women aged&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;35&#x000a0;years had lower fasting C-peptide and insulin levels and higher blood glucose levels. Moreover, insulin and C-peptide levels were all higher in the prepregnancy BMI&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;24&#x000a0;kg/m<sup>2</sup> groups, and those with a family history of diabetes had elevated postprandial glucose levels (all <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05) (Additional file 1: Tables S2&#x02013;S4).
<table-wrap id="Tab1"><label>Table 1</label><caption><p>Glucose metabolism indicator levels in the GDM and non-GDM groups</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left"/><th align="left">All participants</th><th align="left">Non-GDM group</th><th align="left">GDM group</th><th align="left"><italic>P</italic></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">N</td><td align="left">2028</td><td align="left">1014</td><td align="left">1014</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5"><bold>Glucose level (mmol/L)</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Fasting</td><td align="left">4.79 (4.49, 5.20)</td><td align="left">4.54 (4.34, 4.75)</td><td align="left">5.20 (4.87, 5.39)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">60 min</td><td align="left">8.26 (6.95, 9.75)</td><td align="left">7.24 (6.32, 8.22)</td><td align="left">9.66 (8.32, 10.48)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">120 min</td><td align="left">6.92 (6.10, 8.00)</td><td align="left">6.36 (5.72, 7.00)</td><td align="left">7.86 (6.80, 8.22)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5"><bold>Insulin level (&#x000b5;IU/mL)</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Fasting</td><td align="left">7.8 (5.30, 11.10)</td><td align="left">5.95 (4.55, 8.50)</td><td align="left">9.80 (7.30, 13.03)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">60 min</td><td align="left">47.4 (29.20, 69.38)</td><td align="left">37.25 (18.18, 56.25)</td><td align="left">56.90 (39.80, 81.48)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">120 min</td><td align="left">41.3 (25.50, 61.60)</td><td align="left">31.05 (15.30, 45.63)</td><td align="left">52.80 (36.28, 75.20)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5"><bold>C-peptide level (ng/mL)</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Fasting</td><td align="left">1.60 (1.27, 2.01)</td><td align="left">1.42 (1.15, 1.74)</td><td align="left">1.82 (1.45, 2.26)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">60 min</td><td align="left">7.11 (5.71, 8.78)</td><td align="left">6.72 (5.40, 8.24)</td><td align="left">7.53 (6.05, 9.19)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">120 min</td><td align="left">7.25 (5.79, 8.98)</td><td align="left">6.57 (5.29, 7.94)</td><td align="left">8.11 (6.48, 9.92)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5"><bold>Area under the curve</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Glucose (mmol/L*h)</td><td align="left">14.21 (12.47, 16.09)</td><td align="left">12.74 (11.53, 13.90)</td><td align="left">16.05 (14.64, 17.10)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Insulin (&#x000b5;IU/mL*h)</td><td align="left">73.68 (48.56, 103.46)</td><td align="left">58.43 (32.48, 83.59)</td><td align="left">89.83 (65.09, 122.58)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">C-peptide (ng/mL *h)</td><td align="left">11.52 (9.50, 14.24)</td><td align="left">10.74 (8.96, 13.00)</td><td align="left">12.59 (10.31, 17.57)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5"><bold>Glucose Composite Indicator</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">HOMA-IR</td><td align="left">1.67 (1.10, 2.49)</td><td align="left">1.20 (0.91, 1.74)</td><td align="left">2.28 (1.64, 3.08)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">QUICKIi &#x000d7; 10<sup>2</sup></td><td align="left">35.33 (33.30, 37.76)</td><td align="left">37.23 (35.11, 38.98)</td><td align="left">33.71 (32.31, 35.43)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">QUICKIc &#x000d7; 10<sup>2</sup></td><td align="left">46.75 (44.17, 49.40)</td><td align="left">48.50 (46.31, 50.92)</td><td align="left">44.86 (42.89, 47.31)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Matsuda index</td><td align="left">6.01 (4.23, 9.39)</td><td align="left">8.78 (5.99, 14.15)</td><td align="left">4.62 (3.36, 6.04)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">HOMA-B</td><td align="left">122.73 (91.99, 165.00)</td><td align="left">121.45 (90.07, 169.58)</td><td align="left">123.16 (93.41, 160.72)</td><td align="left"><bold>0.497</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">IGIi</td><td align="left">11.58 (7.31, 17.81)</td><td align="left">11.78 (5.70, 17.98)</td><td align="left">11.48 (7.69, 17.76)</td><td align="left"><bold>0.063</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">IGIc</td><td align="left">1.68 (1.20, 2.38)</td><td align="left">1.99 (1.53, 2.73)</td><td align="left">1.37 (0.99,1.92)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">ISSI-2</td><td align="left">533.10 (422.80, 679.07)</td><td align="left">634.75 (499.50, 781.80)</td><td align="left">464.88 (398.87, 546.30)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>Bolded <italic>P</italic> values indicate statistical significance (<italic>P</italic>&#x0ff1c;0.05)</p><p>The area under the curve (AUC) was calculated via the time&#x02013;blood glucose curve and on the basis of the calculus principle for the AUC at the 3 time points in hours</p><p><italic>Abbreviations</italic>
<italic>HOMA-IR</italic> Homeostasis models of assessment of insulin resistance, <italic>HOMA-B</italic> Homeostasis models of assessment of beta-cell function, <italic>QUICKIi</italic> Quantitative sensitivity check indices for insulin, <italic>QUICKIc</italic> Quantitative sensitivity check indices for C-peptide, <italic>IGIi (&#x000b5;IU/mg)</italic> Insulinogenic indices for insulin, <italic>IGIc (ng/mg)</italic> Insulinogenic indices for C-peptide, <italic>ISSI-2</italic> Insulin secretion-sensitivity index-2</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p></sec><sec id="Sec10"><title>Latent classes of C-peptide patterns and corresponding glucose and insulin responses</title><p id="Par42">Latent class trajectory modeling identified two distinct C-peptide response patterns in both GDM group and non-GDM group based on model fitting statistics and class membership probabilities (Additional file 1: Tables S5&#x02013;S7). GDM Class 1 (76.04%) presented a slower increase in C-peptide, peaking at 8.06 (7.90, 8.26) ng/mL at 120&#x000a0;min, whereas GDM Class 2 (23.96%) exhibited a sharp C-peptide peak at 60&#x000a0;min (10.64 (10.31, 10.96) ng/mL), followed by a decline (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>A). Notably, the non-GDM Class 2 had a similar C-peptide trajectory to GDM Class 2, peaking at 60&#x000a0;min (9.97 (9.68, 10.26) ng/mL), and additionally its insulin trajectory was second only to that of the GDM Class 2 (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>B).<fig id="Fig1"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;1</label><caption><p>C-peptide trajectories for each class&#x000a0;(<bold>A</bold>) identified by the LCTM approach and corresponding insulin&#x000a0;(<bold>B</bold>) and glucose&#x000a0;(<bold>C</bold>) responses. Curves are the estimated mean trajectories (solid line) and 95% CIs (shaded)</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4281_Fig1_HTML" id="MO1"/></fig></p><p id="Par43">Despite similar glucose curves between the two GDM classes (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>C), GDM Class 2 had the highest peak and AUC values of C-peptide and insulin (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>), the greatest insulin resistance (highest HOMA-IR, lowest QUICKIi, QUICKIc and Matsuda indices; all <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001), and predominantly impaired fasting glucose (48.1%) (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref>). Conversely, GDM Class 1 had the lowest beta-cell secretion indicators (HOMA-B, IGIi, IGIc, and ISSI-2; all <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001) and the highest proportion of impaired glucose tolerance (37.9%). Notably, non-GDM Class 2 presented peak and AUC values of C-peptide and insulin second only to GDM Class 2 (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>B&#x02013;C, E&#x02013;F) and had significantly higher HOMA-IR and lower QUICKIi, QUICKIc, and Matsuda index values compared to non-GDM Class 1 (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref>), suggesting subclinical dysmetabolism. High correlation existed between blood glucose levels at 120&#x000a0;min with C-peptide and insulin levels at 120&#x000a0;min in the GDM Class 2 group (Additional file 1: Fig. S3).<fig id="Fig2"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;2</label><caption><p>Area under the curve for glucose (<bold>A</bold>), C-peptide (<bold>B</bold>), and insulin (<bold>C</bold>) levels, and the peak values for glucose (<bold>D</bold>),&#x000a0;C-peptide (<bold>E</bold>), and insulin (<bold>F</bold>) levels. The classes were identified via latent class trajectory analysis</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4281_Fig2_HTML" id="MO2"/></fig><table-wrap id="Tab2"><label>Table 2</label><caption><p>Glucose metabolism characteristics of the latent classes</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left" rowspan="2"/><th align="left" colspan="2">Non-GDM group</th><th align="left"/><th align="left" colspan="2">GDM group</th><th align="left"/><th align="left"/></tr><tr><th align="left">Class 1</th><th align="left">Class 2</th><th align="left"><italic>P</italic></th><th align="left">Class 1</th><th align="left">Class 2</th><th align="left"><italic>P</italic></th><th align="left"><italic>P&#x02032;</italic></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">N</td><td align="left">794 (78.30)</td><td align="left">220 (21.70)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">771 (76.04)</td><td align="left">243 (23.96)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">HOMA-IR</td><td align="left">1.15 (0.90, 1.59)</td><td align="left">1.49 (1.01, 2.18)<sup>ab</sup></td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td><td align="left">2.07 (1.52, 2.86)</td><td align="left">2.87 (2.15, 3.83)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">QUICKIi &#x000d7; 10<sup>2</sup></td><td align="left">37.49 (35.60, 39.07)</td><td align="left">35.96 (33.95, 38.27)<sup>ab</sup></td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td><td align="left">34.20 (32.65, 35.86)</td><td align="left">32.63 (31.34, 34.01)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">QUICKIc &#x000d7; 10<sup>2</sup></td><td align="left">48.99 (46.89, 51.32)</td><td align="left">46.46 (44.62, 48.66)<sup>ab</sup></td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td><td align="left">45.44 (43.44, 47.87)</td><td align="left">43.07 (41.28, 45.47)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Matsuda index</td><td align="left">9.44 (6.67, 14.87)</td><td align="left">5.90 (4.43, 10.27)<sup>ab</sup></td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td><td align="left">5.02 (3.81, 6.47)</td><td align="left">3.43 (2.54, 4.57)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">HOMA-B</td><td align="left">118.32 (89.31, 161.77)</td><td align="left">143.46 (94.32, 220.04)<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td><td align="left">114.56 (88.34, 150.54)</td><td align="left">148.57 (117.37, 191.81)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">IGIi</td><td align="left">10.74 (2.34, 15.50)</td><td align="left">18.71 (11.21, 27.17)<sup>ab</sup></td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td><td align="left">9.66 (6.89, 13.64)</td><td align="left">20.52 (14.71, 28.28)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">IGIc</td><td align="left">1.87 (1.42, 2.54)</td><td align="left">2.49 (1.89, 3.34)<sup>ab</sup></td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td><td align="left">1.21 (0.92, 1.66)</td><td align="left">1.91 (1.53, 2.48)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">ISSI-2</td><td align="left">758.84 (619.54, 884.24)</td><td align="left">915.05 (716.65, 1096.17)<sup>ab</sup></td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td><td align="left">521.58 (444.09, 596.98)</td><td align="left">629.16 (531.33, 712.69)</td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td><td align="left"><bold>&#x0003c;0.001</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="4">Types of blood glucose abnormalities (%)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Impaired fasting glucose (IFG)</td><td align="left">-</td><td align="left">-</td><td align="left">-</td><td align="left">227 (35.9)</td><td align="left">117 (48.1)</td><td align="left"><bold>0.003</bold></td><td align="left">-</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Impaired glucose tolerance (IGT)</td><td align="left">-</td><td align="left">-</td><td align="left">-</td><td align="left">292 (37.9)</td><td align="left">71 (29.2)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">IFG+IGT</td><td align="left">-</td><td align="left">-</td><td align="left">-</td><td align="left">202 (26.2)</td><td align="left">55 (22.6)</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>Bolded <italic>P</italic> values indicate statistical significance (<italic>P</italic>&#x0ff1c;0.05)</p><p><sup>a</sup>Statistically significant difference between non-GDM Class 2 and GDM Class 1, <italic>P</italic> &#x0003c; 0.05</p><p><sup>b</sup>Statistically significant difference between non-GDM Class 2 and GDM Class 2, <italic>P</italic> &#x0003c; 0.05. <italic>P</italic>&#x02032; represents the difference in outcome between the four subgroups</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p></sec><sec id="Sec11"><title>Cross-sectional associations with C-peptide pattern classes</title><p id="Par44">Multivariate logistic regression revealed prepregnancy BMI as a common risk factor for non-GDM Class 2 (20.9%; OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.75, 95% CI: 1.18&#x02013;2.58) and both GDM groups, with the strongest association observed in GDM Class 2 (34.6%; OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;3.42, 95% CI: 2.42&#x02013;4.83). Additional risk factors included family history of diabetes (GDM Class 2: OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;2.57; GDM Class 1: OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;2.07), advanced maternal age for GDM Class 1 (30.1%; OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.85), and history of previous cesarean delivery for GDM Class 2 (18.5%; OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.99) (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab3" ref-type="table">3</xref>).
<table-wrap id="Tab3"><label>Table 3</label><caption><p>Demographic characteristics and predictors of potential categories</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left" rowspan="2"/><th align="left">Non-GDM Class 1</th><th align="left" colspan="2">Non-GDM Class 2</th><th align="left" colspan="2">GDM Class 1</th><th align="left" colspan="2">GDM Class 2</th></tr><tr><th align="left">M(P<sub>25,</sub> P<sub>75</sub>)/N (%)</th><th align="left">M(P<sub>25,</sub> P<sub>75</sub>)/N (%)</th><th align="left">OR (95% CI)</th><th align="left">M(P<sub>25,</sub> P<sub>75</sub>)/N (%)</th><th align="left">OR (95% CI)</th><th align="left">M(P<sub>25,</sub> P<sub>75</sub>)/N (%)</th><th align="left">OR (95% CI)</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">Maternal age (years, %)<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">29 (28, 32)</td><td align="left">29 (27, 32)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">32 (29, 35)<sup>e</sup></td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">31 (28, 34)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x0003c;35</td><td align="left">677 (85.3)</td><td align="left">188 (85.5)</td><td align="left">Ref.</td><td align="left">539 (69.9)</td><td align="left">Ref.</td><td align="left">199 (81.9)</td><td align="left">Ref.</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02265;35</td><td align="left">117 (14.7)<sup>b</sup></td><td align="left">32 (14.5)<sup>c</sup></td><td align="left">0.89 (0.54, 1.45)</td><td align="left">232 (30.1)<sup>e</sup></td><td align="left">1.85 (1.37, 2.50)</td><td align="left">44 (18.1)</td><td align="left">1.11 (0.71, 1.74)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Prepregnancy BMI (kg/m<sup>2</sup>)<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">20.6 (19.0, 22.5)</td><td align="left">21.1 (19.2, 23.6)<sup>d</sup></td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">22.0 (20.0, 24.0)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">22.7 (21.1, 24.6)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;BMI &#x0003c;24</td><td align="left">693 (87.3)</td><td align="left">174 (79.1)</td><td align="left">Ref.</td><td align="left">576 (74.8)</td><td align="left">Ref.</td><td align="left">159 (65.4)</td><td align="left">Ref.</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;BMI &#x02265;24</td><td align="left">101 (12.7)<sup>b</sup></td><td align="left">46 (20.9)<sup>d</sup></td><td align="left">1.75 (1.18, 2.58)</td><td align="left">195 (25.3)<sup>e</sup></td><td align="left">2.13 (1.62, 2.80)</td><td align="left">84 (34.6)</td><td align="left">3.42 (2.42, 4.83)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Gestational weight gain (kg)<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">14.0 (11.5, 17.0)</td><td align="left">15.0 (12.0, 18.0)<sup>d</sup></td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">12.0 (10.0, 15.0)<sup>e</sup></td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">13.0 (10.0, 16.0)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Adequate</td><td align="left">376 (47.4)</td><td align="left">91 (41.4)</td><td align="left">Ref.</td><td align="left">385 (49.9)</td><td align="left">Ref.</td><td align="left">108 (44.4)</td><td align="left">Ref.</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Insufficient</td><td align="left">34 (4.3)</td><td align="left">4 (1.8)</td><td align="left">0.46 (0.16, 1.33)</td><td align="left">104 (13.5)</td><td align="left">2.70 (1.77, 4.13)</td><td align="left">20 (8.2)</td><td align="left">1.80 (0.98, 3.29)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Excessive</td><td align="left">384 (48.4)<sup>b</sup></td><td align="left">125 (56.8)<sup>cd</sup></td><td align="left">1.27 (0.93, 1.73)</td><td align="left">282 (36.6)<sup>e</sup></td><td align="left">0.66 (0.53, 0.82)</td><td align="left">115 (47.3)</td><td align="left">0.90 (0.66, 1.22)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Gravidity<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">2 (1, 2)<sup>b</sup></td><td align="left">2 (1, 2)</td><td align="left">1.17 (0.87, 1.58)</td><td align="left">2 (1, 3)</td><td align="left">1.08 (0.89, 1.31)</td><td align="left">2 (1, 3)</td><td align="left">1.15 (0.88, 1.50)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Parity<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Primiparous</td><td align="left">546 (68.8)</td><td align="left">148 (67.3)</td><td align="left">Ref.</td><td align="left">442 (57.3)</td><td align="left">Ref.</td><td align="left">170 (70.0)</td><td align="left">Ref.</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Multiparous</td><td align="left">248 (31.2)<sup>b</sup></td><td align="left">72 (32.7)<sup>c</sup></td><td align="left">0.90 (0.53, 1.53)</td><td align="left">329 (42.7)<sup>e</sup></td><td align="left">0.82 (0.58, 1.18)</td><td align="left">73 (30.0)</td><td align="left">0.43 (0.25, 0.75)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Previous cesarean delivery<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">103 (13.0)<sup>b</sup></td><td align="left">31 (14.1)<sup>c</sup></td><td align="left">1.04 (0.61, 1.77)</td><td align="left">170 (22.0)</td><td align="left">1.34 (0.95, 1.89)</td><td align="left">45 (18.5)</td><td align="left">1.99 (1.16, 3.39)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">History of pregnancy loss<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">307 (38.7)<sup>b</sup></td><td align="left">83 (37.7)<sup>cd</sup></td><td align="left">0.73 (0.43, 1.24)</td><td align="left">413 (53.6)</td><td align="left">1.40 (0.99, 1.99)</td><td align="left">122 (50.2)</td><td align="left">1.30 (0.80, 2.12)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Family history of diabetes<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">33 (4.2)<sup>b</sup></td><td align="left">16 (7.3)</td><td align="left">1.72 (0.92, 3.22)</td><td align="left">71 (9.2)</td><td align="left">2.07 (1.33, 3.23)</td><td align="left">26 (10.7)</td><td align="left">2.57 (1.48, 4.46)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Family history of hypertension</td><td align="left">87 (11.0)</td><td align="left">30 (13.6)</td><td align="left">1.19 (0.76, 1.87)</td><td align="left">113 (14.7)</td><td align="left">1.23 (0.89, 1.68)</td><td align="left">37 (15.2)</td><td align="left">1.28 (0.83, 1.97)</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>The non-GDM Class 1 served as the reference group for the OR calculation</p><p><sup>a</sup>The difference among the four groups was statistically significant</p><p><sup>b</sup>statistically significant difference between non-GDM Class 1 and non-GDM Class 2</p><p><sup>c</sup>statistically significant difference between non-GDM Class 2 and GDM Class 1</p><p><sup>d</sup>statistically significant difference between non-GDM Class 2 and GDM Class 2</p><p><sup>e</sup>statistically significant difference between GDM Class 1 and GDM Class 2, <italic>P</italic> &#x0003c; 0.05</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p></sec><sec id="Sec12"><title>C-peptide pattern classes and perinatal outcomes</title><p id="Par45">According to the fully adjusted models, GDM Class 2 had a higher risk of delivering LGA (aOR&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.51, 95% CI: 1.07&#x02013;2.14) and macrosomia (aOR&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.82, 95% CI: 1.13&#x02013;2.95). Women in GDM Class 1 also presented an increased risk of delivering LGA in the crude model (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.30; 95% CI, 1.04&#x02013;1.72), which attenuated to non-significance after adjustment (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab4" ref-type="table">4</xref>). Among maternal outcomes, non-GDM Class 2 had an increased risk of preeclampsia (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;2.85; 95% CI, 1.25&#x02013;6.50) and GDM Class 2 had an increased risk of hyperthyroidism (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;12.13; 95% CI, 2.26&#x02013;65.05) (Additional file 1: Table S8).
<table-wrap id="Tab4"><label>Table 4</label><caption><p>Multivariate analysis of latent C-peptide classes and important perinatal outcomes (ORs and 95% CIs)</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left"/><th align="left">Crude model</th><th align="left">Model 1</th><th align="left">Model 2</th><th align="left">Model 3</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left" colspan="5"><bold>Adverse fetal outcome</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Non-GDM, Class 1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Non-GDM, Class 2</td><td align="left">0.91 (0.65, 1.26)</td><td align="left">0.89 (0.64, 1.24)</td><td align="left">0.90 (0.65, 1.26)</td><td align="left">0.99 (0.71, 1.39)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">GDM, Class 1</td><td align="left">1.15 (0.93, 1.42)</td><td align="left">1.11 (0.90, 1.38)</td><td align="left">1.07 (0.86, 1.33)</td><td align="left">1.19 (0.94, 1.51)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">GDM, Class 2</td><td align="left"><bold>1.36 (1.01, 1.84)</bold></td><td align="left">1.29 (0.95, 1.75)</td><td align="left">1.31 (0.96, 1.77)</td><td align="left">1.22 (0.90, 1.65)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>Prematurity</bold></td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Non-GDM, Class 1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Non-GDM, Class 2</td><td align="left">0.90 (0.63, 1.27)</td><td align="left">0.91 (0.64, 1.30)</td><td align="left">0.90 (0.64, 1.28)</td><td align="left">0.91 (0.64, 1.30)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">GDM, Class 1</td><td align="left">0.96 (0.76, 1.21)</td><td align="left">0.98 (0.78, 1.24)</td><td align="left">1.05 (0.83, 1.32)</td><td align="left">1.06 (0.84, 1.34)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">GDM, Class 2</td><td align="left">1.01 (0.73, 1.41)</td><td align="left">1.05 (0.75, 1.47)</td><td align="left">1.06 (0.76, 1.47)</td><td align="left">1.08 (0.77, 1.51)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>LGA</bold></td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Non-GDM, Class 1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Non-GDM, Class 2</td><td align="left">1.05 (0.72, 1.55)</td><td align="left">1.02 (0.69, 1.51)</td><td align="left">1.05 (0.71, 1.55)</td><td align="left">1.02 (0.69, 1.51)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">GDM, Class 1</td><td align="left"><bold>1.34 (1.04, 1.72)</bold></td><td align="left">1.28 (1.00, 1.65)</td><td align="left">1.18 (0.91, 1.52)</td><td align="left">1.14 (0.88, 1.47)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">GDM, Class 2</td><td align="left"><bold>1.75 (1.25, 2.44)</bold></td><td align="left"><bold>1.61 (1.14, 2.27)</bold></td><td align="left"><bold>1.62 (1.15, 2.27)</bold></td><td align="left"><bold>1.51 (1.07, 2.14)</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>Macrosomia</bold></td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Non-GDM, Class 1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Non-GDM, Class 2</td><td align="left">1.17 (0.66, 2.07)</td><td align="left">1.14 (0.65, 2.02)</td><td align="left">1.18 (0.67, 2.08)</td><td align="left">1.14 (0.64, 2.02)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">GDM, Class 1</td><td align="left">1.10 (0.74, 1.62)</td><td align="left">1.06 (0.71, 1.57)</td><td align="left">1.04 (0.70, 1.54)</td><td align="left">1.01 (0.67, 1.49)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">GDM, Class 2</td><td align="left"><bold>2.04 (1.28, 3.27)</bold></td><td align="left"><bold>1.91 (1.18, 3.09)</bold></td><td align="left"><bold>1.95 (1.22, 3.13)</bold></td><td align="left"><bold>1.82 (1.13, 2.95)</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>Fetal distress</bold></td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Non-GDM, Class 1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Non-GDM, Class 2</td><td align="left">0.33 (0.04, 2.53)</td><td align="left">0.32 (0.04, 2.48)</td><td align="left">0.33 (0.04, 2.57)</td><td align="left">0.32 (0.04, 2.50)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">GDM, Class 1</td><td align="left">1.41 (0.65, 3.10)</td><td align="left">1.37 (0.62, 3.04)</td><td align="left">1.59 (0.72, 3.53)</td><td align="left">1.54 (0.69, 3.44)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">GDM, Class 2</td><td align="left">0.59 (0.13, 2.68)</td><td align="left">0.56 (0.12, 2.60)</td><td align="left">0.61 (0.13, 2.79)</td><td align="left">0.57 (0.12, 2.64)</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5"><bold>Gestational metabolic diseases</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Non-GDM, Class 1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Non-GDM, Class 2</td><td align="left">1.35 (0.92, 1.99)</td><td align="left">1.31 (0.89, 1.94)</td><td align="left">1.39 (0.92, 2.00)</td><td align="left">1.32 (0.90,1.94)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">GDM, Class 1</td><td align="left">1.12 (0.85, 1.47)</td><td align="left">1.07 (0.81, 1.41)</td><td align="left">1.13 (0.86, 1.48)</td><td align="left">1.08 (0.82,1.43)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">GDM, Class 2</td><td align="left">0.94 (0.62, 1.41)</td><td align="left">0.88 (0.58, 1.32)</td><td align="left">0.95 (0.63, 1.43)</td><td align="left">0.88 (0.58,1.34)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>Hypertension</bold></td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Non-GDM, Class 1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Non-GDM, Class 2</td><td align="left">1.83 (0.73, 4.59)</td><td align="left">1.60 (0.63, 4.04)</td><td align="left">1.82 (0.73, 4.58)</td><td align="left">1.61 (0.64, 4.08)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">GDM, Class 1</td><td align="left">1.56 (0.79, 3.09)</td><td align="left">1.27 (0.63, 2.55)</td><td align="left">1.65 (0.83, 3.31)</td><td align="left">1.38 (0.68, 2.79)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">GDM, Class 2</td><td align="left">1.17 (0.42, 3.28)</td><td align="left">0.84 (0.29, 2.41)</td><td align="left">1.22 (0.43, 3.42)</td><td align="left">0.88 (0.31, 2.54)</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5"><bold>Preeclampsia</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">Non-GDM, Class 1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td><td align="left">1</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Non-GDM, Class 2</td><td align="left"><bold>3.16 (1.40, 7.16)</bold></td><td align="left"><bold>2.71 (1.18, 6.23)</bold></td><td align="left"><bold>3.18 (1.40, 7.21)</bold></td><td align="left"><bold>2.85 (1.25, 6.50)</bold></td></tr><tr><td align="left">GDM, Class 1</td><td align="left">1.68 (0.84, 3.38)</td><td align="left">1.23 (0.60, 2.55)</td><td align="left">1.54 (0.76, 3.15)</td><td align="left">1.30 (0.63, 2.69)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">GDM, Class 2</td><td align="left">1.26 (0.45, 3.58)</td><td align="left">0.83 (0.28, 2.43)</td><td align="left">1.27 (0.45, 3.60)</td><td align="left">0.94 (0.33, 2.73)</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>Bolded OR (95% CI) values indicate statistical significance, defined as 95% CI not including 1</p><p>Model 1 was adjusted for prepregnancy BMI and family history of diabetes; Model 2 was adjusted for maternal age, history of previous cesarean delivery, and history of pregnancy loss; and Model 3 was adjusted for all the covariates adjusted for in Model 1 and Model 2</p><p><italic>Abbreviations</italic>&#x000a0;<italic>LGA</italic> Large for gestational age, <italic>SGA</italic> Small for gestational age, <italic>LBW</italic> Low birth weight</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec13"><title>Discussion</title><p id="Par46">Our study demonstrated a dynamic C-peptide profiling during OGTT, which can capture the heterogeneous pathophysiology of GDM. The latent class trajectory modeling revealed two major C-peptide trajectory patterns within GDM, despite similar blood glucose levels: a slow 120-min peak (Class 1) and a sharp 60-min peak with decline (Class 2). Class 1 was characterized by decreased insulin secretion, whereas Class 2 was characterized by pronounced insulin resistance with increased risks of delivering large for LGA and macrosomia. Interestingly, a subset of women without GDM also exhibited an early high-response C-peptide pattern similar to GDM with an increased risk of preeclampsia. Clinically, these findings have significant implications for personalized management.</p><p id="Par47">Studies on the heterogeneity of GDM are emerging. However, these methods ignore measurement error, omit certain individual classifications, and fail to capture subtle group differences [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR29">29</xref>]. Using a data-driven method, we observed different C-peptide trajectories, which may reflect differing balances between insulin secretion capacity and resistance. GDM Class 1, characterized by a slow-rise C-peptide trajectory, had high glucose levels throughout the OGTT, with relatively mild insulin and C-peptide responses. Despite only mild insulin resistance, women in this Class had the worst levels of insulin secretion indices. This pattern may indicate a suboptimal beta-cell compensatory response to the glucose load, reflecting a tendency toward insufficient insulin secretion<bold>.</bold> Such a profile may be related to limited beta-cell reserve or dysfunction in early-phase insulin release [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>], which has been implicated in the development of postprandial hyperglycemia [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR31">31</xref>]. In contrast, the sharp and early C-peptide peak in GDM Class 2 aligned with compensatory hyperinsulinemia driven by profound insulin resistance, analogous to the physiology of type 2 diabetes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR32">32</xref>]. Elevated HOMA-IR and reduced Matsuda indices in this group further support impaired peripheral glucose uptake [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR33">33</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR34">34</xref>]. However, nearly half of the women had elevated fasting glucose levels, which may suggest that insulin resistance was severe enough to expose the fetus to higher ambient glucose.</p><p id="Par48">Our findings indicated that GDM Class 2 had the strongest association with adverse fetal outcomes, especially LGA and macrosomia. These insights are consistent with previous studies linking maternal insulin resistance and hyperglycemia to fetal overgrowth [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR35">35</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR36">36</xref>], supporting the biological plausibility of our findings. Maternal insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia may upregulate placental glucose and amino acid transporters, leading to excess nutrient delivery to the fetus [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR37">37</xref>]. GDM Class1 demonstrated more modest risk associations after adjusting for key confounding factors, which was consistent with the findings of previous studies. Powe et al. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR38">38</xref>] reported that GDM dominated by insulin resistance carried roughly double the risk of adverse outcomes relative to GDM dominated by insulin secretion. Similarly, a large prospective study in Europe stratified GDM by insulin sensitivity and showed that GDM with high insulin resistance had a worse metabolic profile and greater risk of complications than both normoglycemic women and GDM with low insulin resistance [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR39">39</xref>]. Indeed, a recent Korean study using latent profile analysis of OGTT glucose curves identified clusters but found no independent association with outcomes after adjusting for confounders [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR40">40</xref>]. The ability to demonstrate differences in adverse outcomes using C-peptide&#x02013;based classification highlights the additional informational value of assessing insulin secretory responses rather than solely assessing glucose.</p><p id="Par49">The recognition of this metabolic heterogeneity is essential for enhancing clinical management practices. Current clinical guidelines for GDM treatment often adopt a &#x0201c;one-size-fits-all&#x0201d; approach. Nutritional therapy is commonly initiated, and pharmacological intervention is chosen based on the persistence of hyperglycemia, without regard to metabolic heterogeneity [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR41">41</xref>]. However, our findings suggest that simply adding the testing of C-peptide during routine OGTT measurements could differentiate pathogenic mechanisms that direct therapeutic strategies. Patients with a high-risk, hyperinsulinemic phenotype (Class 2) should receive targeted interventions addressing insulin resistance, including healthy diets, physical activity, and weight loss to reduce glucose excursions [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR42">42</xref>]. Insulin sensitizers such as metformin may be more effective in pregnancies with poor glycemic control after lifestyle interventions. Given the increased risk of fetal overgrowth, serial ultrasound examinations are also recommended. Conversely, women in GDM Class 1 may respond better to strategies targeting impaired insulin secretion and improving postprandial hyperglycemia. Nutritional advice should focus on smaller, more frequent meals to manage postprandial hyperglycemia. As beta-cell function and insulin reserves may deteriorate as pregnancy progresses, continuous monitoring of blood glucose remains necessary and insulin support may be needed.</p><p id="Par50">An interesting finding of our research was the identification of a subgroup of normoglycemic women exhibiting high C-peptide responses (non-GDM Class 2) with elevated insulin resistance [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR43">43</xref>]. Moreover, these women were at greater risk of developing preeclampsia, possibly owing to elevated levels of C-peptide and insulin, which increased vascular resistance and caused high blood pressure [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR44">44</xref>]. Although obesity is a common risk factor for insulin resistance and preeclampsia [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR45">45</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR46">46</xref>], the association between non-GDM Class 2 and preeclampsia remained significant after adjusting for BMI, supporting prior evidence that insulin resistance independently predicts preeclampsia risk during pregnancy [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR47">47</xref>]. These findings highlight the limitation of relying solely on glucose thresholds for GDM diagnosis, underscoring a continuum of metabolic abnormalities extending below current diagnostic criteria. Therefore, we propose supplemental testing of C-peptide levels during the OGTT to aid in clinical precision. This option would not add extra pain to blood sampling in pregnant women and would be easy to implement. Even if the test is not available to all pregnant women, it is desirable to test C-peptide in women with the risk factors identified in this study, such as a family history of diabetes, advanced maternal age, multiparous women, and prepregnancy overweight and obesity.</p><sec id="Sec14"><title>Strengths and limitations</title><p id="Par51">Our study has several strengths. First, this study used a dynamic model to depict individual C peptide trajectories, offering novel insights into the metabolic heterogeneity in GDM and helping identify distinct physiological patterns associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes. Specifically, GDM Class 1, a slow-rise trajectory, was characterized by impaired insulin secretion, whereas GDM class 2, an early-sharp rising trajectory, was characterized by marked insulin resistance with greater risks of adverse fetal outcomes. Additionally, a high-risk normoglycemic subgroup, which was at risk of abnormal insulin resistance and developing preeclampsia, was identified. These findings may provide a foundation for future studies exploring personalized management strategies to improve maternal and infant outcomes. Finally, and crucially determining its feasibility, the C peptide measurements in this study were obtained from the routine OGTT samples, which are a practical and non-invasive method that does not require additional blood draws.</p><p id="Par52">Our study had several limitations. This study was a single ethnicity study conducted at one medical center in China, which may limit generalizability to other populations. Multicenter studies across diverse populations are needed to validate the results. In addition, this study evaluated only short-term follow-up outcomes, and differences between the classes may not have been fully captured. Further follow-up should be performed in the future to refine the long-term consequences of different C-peptide response patterns. Furthermore, although we explored the impact of a series of C-peptide indicators, the predictive value, feasibility, and cost-effectiveness of specific C-peptide indicators in guiding clinical management should be further evaluated in future studies. Finally, this study lacked detailed information on genetic inheritance and mechanisms, necessitating further exploration in future research.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec15"><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par53">C-peptide levels measured via the 2-h OGTT can disclose the heterogeneity of glucose metabolism between GDM and identify high-risk groups of pregnant women without GDM. This study demonstrated the inadequacy of glucose-centered diagnostic criteria and supported the potential value of incorporating dynamic C-peptide assessment into the OGTT in clinical practice.</p></sec><sec id="Sec16" sec-type="supplementary-material"><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>
<supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM1"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4281_MOESM1_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Additional file 1: Additional Details on Calculation of the glucose composite indicators. Fig. S1. Flow chart. Table S1. Baseline Characteristics of the 2028 Participants. Fig. S2. Correlation analysis between 9 indicators of insulin, C-peptide and glucose in GDM and non-GDM. Table S2. Comparing glucose metabolism indicator differences in GDM and non-GDM stratified by maternal age. Table S3. Comparing glucose metabolism indicator differences in GDM and non-GDM stratified by pre-pregnancy BMI. Table S4. Comparing glucose metabolism indicator differences in GDM and non-GDM stratified by family history. Table S5. Model fit statistics in non-GDM. Table S6. Model fit statistics in GDM. Table S7. Descriptive statistics of class membership probabilities used in hard assignment (highest probability for each individual). Fig. S3. Correlation analysis between 9 indicators of insulin, C-peptide and glucose in latent C peptide pattern classes. Table S8. Multivariate analysis of latent C peptide pattern classes and secondary outcomes (OR and 95%).</p></caption></media></supplementary-material></p></sec></body><back><glossary><title>Abbreviations</title><def-list><def-item><term>GDM</term><def><p id="Par12">Gestational diabetes mellitus</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>OGTT</term><def><p id="Par13">Oral glucose tolerance test</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>LCTM</term><def><p id="Par14">Latent class trajectory modeling</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>FPG</term><def><p id="Par15">Fasting plasma glucose</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>HOMA&#x02013;IR</term><def><p id="Par16">Homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>HOMA&#x02013;B</term><def><p id="Par17">Homeostasis model assessment of beta&#x02013;cell function</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>QUICKIi</term><def><p id="Par18">Quantitative insulin sensitivity check index for insulin</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>QUICKIc</term><def><p id="Par19">Quantitative insulin sensitivity check index for C-peptide</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>IGIi</term><def><p id="Par20">Modified insulinogenic indices for insulin</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>IGIc</term><def><p id="Par21">Modified insulinogenic indices for C-peptide</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ISSI&#x02013;2</term><def><p id="Par22">Insulin Secretion&#x02013;Sensitivity Index&#x02013;2</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>GWG</term><def><p id="Par23">Gestational weight gain</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>LBW</term><def><p id="Par24">Low birth weight</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>SGA</term><def><p id="Par25">Small for gestational age</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>LGA</term><def><p id="Par26">Large for gestational age</p></def></def-item></def-list></glossary><fn-group><fn><p><bold>Publisher&#x02019;s Note</bold></p><p>Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.</p></fn><fn><p>Xinyue Wang and Zhangya He contributed equally to this work.</p></fn></fn-group><ack><title>Acknowledgements
</title><p>The authors extend their gratitude to the participants and the research team at Northwest Women&#x02019;s and Children&#x02019;s Hospital for their dedicated involvement.</p></ack><notes notes-type="author-contribution"><title>Authors&#x02019; contributions
</title><p>XW performed the analysis. XW, ZH1, and SZ conceived the study, interpreted the results, and drafted the original manuscript. JL, JZ, and WY contributed to editing the manuscript. JJ, HY, ZH2 and YM critically reviewed the manuscript for important intellectual content. XL had full access to all of the data in the study and takes responsibility for the integrity of the data and the accuracy of the data analysis. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.</p></notes><notes notes-type="funding-information"><title>Funding</title><p>This research was funded by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 81874263), the Key Special Project of the Development Center for Medical Science &#x00026; Technology of the National Health Commission of the People&#x02019;s Republic of China (W2015CAE060) and Social development in key industry innovation chains (2021ZDLSF02&#x02013;14).</p></notes><notes notes-type="data-availability"><title>Data availability
</title><p>The datasets generated during the current study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.</p></notes><notes><title>Declarations</title><notes id="FPar1"><title>Ethics approval and consent to participate</title><p id="Par54">The study was approved by the Research Ethics Committee of Northwest Women and Children&#x02019;s Hospital (NWCH 2012&#x02013;013) and Xi&#x02019;an Jiaotong University (XJTU2016&#x02013;053). Written informed consent was obtained from all participants.</p></notes><notes id="FPar2"><title>Consent for publication</title><p id="Par55">Not applicable.</p></notes><notes id="FPar3" notes-type="COI-statement"><title>Competing interests
</title><p id="Par56">The authors declare no competing interests.</p></notes></notes><ref-list id="Bib1"><title>References
</title><ref id="CR1"><label>1.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR1" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Hartling</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Dryden</surname><given-names>DM</given-names></name><name><surname>Guthrie</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Muise</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Vandermeer</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Donovan</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Benefits and harms of treating gestational diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis for the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force and the National Institutes of Health Office of Medical Applications of Research</article-title><source>Ann Intern Med.</source><year>2013</year><volume>159</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>123</fpage><lpage>9</lpage><?supplied-pmid 23712381?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23712381</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR1" publication-type="journal">Hartling L, Dryden DM, Guthrie A, Muise M, Vandermeer B, Donovan L. Benefits and harms of treating gestational diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis for the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force and the National Institutes of Health Office of Medical Applications of Research. Ann Intern Med. 2013;159(2):123&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23712381</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR2"><label>2.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR2" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Chivese</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Werfalli</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Sun</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Yuen</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>IDF Diabetes Atlas: estimation of global and regional gestational diabetes mellitus prevalence for 2021 by International Association of Diabetes in Pregnancy Study Group's criteria</article-title><source>Diabetes Res Clin Pract</source><year>2022</year><volume>183</volume><fpage>109050</fpage><?supplied-pmid 34883186?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34883186</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR2" publication-type="journal">Wang H, Li N, Chivese T, Werfalli M, Sun H, Yuen L, et al. IDF Diabetes Atlas: estimation of global and regional gestational diabetes mellitus prevalence for 2021 by International Association of Diabetes in Pregnancy Study Group&#x02019;s criteria. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2022;183: 109050.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34883186</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR3"><label>3.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR3" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Saravanan</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Diabetes in Pregnancy Working Group, Maternal Medicine Clinical Study Group, Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists UK. Gestational diabetes: opportunities for improving maternal and child health</article-title><source>Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol.</source><year>2020</year><volume>8</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>793</fpage><lpage>800</lpage><?supplied-pmid 32822601?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32822601</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR3" publication-type="journal">Saravanan P. Diabetes in Pregnancy Working Group, Maternal Medicine Clinical Study Group, Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists UK. Gestational diabetes: opportunities for improving maternal and child health. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol. 2020;8(9):793&#x02013;800.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32822601</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR4"><label>4.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR4" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wambua</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Singh</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Okoth</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Snell</surname><given-names>KIE</given-names></name><name><surname>Riley</surname><given-names>RD</given-names></name><name><surname>Yau</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association between pregnancy-related complications and development of type 2 diabetes and hypertension in women: an umbrella review</article-title><source>BMC Med</source><year>2024</year><volume>22</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>66</fpage><?supplied-pmid 38355631?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38355631</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR4" publication-type="journal">Wambua S, Singh M, Okoth K, Snell KIE, Riley RD, Yau C, et al. Association between pregnancy-related complications and development of type 2 diabetes and hypertension in women: an umbrella review. BMC Med. 2024;22(1):66.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38355631</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR5"><label>5.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR5" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Plows</surname><given-names>JF</given-names></name><name><surname>Stanley</surname><given-names>JL</given-names></name><name><surname>Baker</surname><given-names>PN</given-names></name><name><surname>Reynolds</surname><given-names>CM</given-names></name><name><surname>Vickers</surname><given-names>MH</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The pathophysiology of gestational diabetes mellitus</article-title><source>Int J Mol Sci</source><year>2018</year><volume>19</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>3342</fpage><?supplied-pmid 30373146?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30373146</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR5" publication-type="journal">Plows JF, Stanley JL, Baker PN, Reynolds CM, Vickers MH. The pathophysiology of gestational diabetes mellitus. Int J Mol Sci. 2018;19(11):3342.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30373146</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR6"><label>6.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR6" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Cundy</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Holt</surname><given-names>RIG</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Gestational diabetes: paradigm lost?</article-title><source>Diabet Med</source><year>2017</year><volume>34</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>8</fpage><lpage>13</lpage><?supplied-pmid 27504618?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27504618</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR6" publication-type="journal">Cundy T, Holt RIG. Gestational diabetes: paradigm lost? Diabet Med. 2017;34(1):8&#x02013;13.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27504618</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR7"><label>7.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR7" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Maddaloni</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Bolli</surname><given-names>GB</given-names></name><name><surname>Frier</surname><given-names>BM</given-names></name><name><surname>Little</surname><given-names>RR</given-names></name><name><surname>Leslie</surname><given-names>RD</given-names></name><name><surname>Pozzilli</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>C-peptide determination in the diagnosis of type of diabetes and its management: a clinical perspective</article-title><source>Diabetes Obes Metab</source><year>2022</year><volume>24</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>1912</fpage><lpage>1926</lpage><?supplied-pmid 35676794?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35676794</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR7" publication-type="journal">Maddaloni E, Bolli GB, Frier BM, Little RR, Leslie RD, Pozzilli P, et al. C-peptide determination in the diagnosis of type of diabetes and its management: a clinical perspective. Diabetes Obes Metab. 2022;24(10):1912&#x02013;26.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35676794</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR8"><label>8.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR8" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zhao</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Deng</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Lyu</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Maternal fasting serum C-peptide concentrations in the first and second trimesters and subsequent risk of gestational diabetes mellitus: a nested case-control study among Chinese women</article-title><source>Diabetes Res Clin Pract</source><year>2024</year><volume>208</volume><fpage>111111</fpage><?supplied-pmid 38266822?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38266822</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR8" publication-type="journal">Zhao C, Liu H, Deng Y, Wu H, Wang S, Lyu X, et al. Maternal fasting serum C-peptide concentrations in the first and second trimesters and subsequent risk of gestational diabetes mellitus: a nested case-control study among Chinese women. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2024;208: 111111.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38266822</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR9"><label>9.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR9" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Falcone</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Kotzaeridi</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Breil</surname><given-names>MH</given-names></name><name><surname>Rosicky</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Stopp</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Yerlikaya-Schatten</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Early assessment of the risk for gestational diabetes mellitus: can fasting parameters of glucose metabolism contribute to risk prediction?</article-title><source>Diabetes Metab J</source><year>2019</year><volume>43</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>785</fpage><lpage>793</lpage><?supplied-pmid 30877716?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30877716</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR9" publication-type="journal">Falcone V, Kotzaeridi G, Breil MH, Rosicky I, Stopp T, Yerlikaya-Schatten G, et al. Early assessment of the risk for gestational diabetes mellitus: can fasting parameters of glucose metabolism contribute to risk prediction? Diabetes Metab J. 2019;43(6):785&#x02013;93.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30877716</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR10"><label>10.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR10" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Niknam</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Ramezani Tehrani</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Behboudi-Gandevani</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Rahmati</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Hedayati</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Abedini</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Umbilical cord blood concentration of connecting peptide (C-peptide) and pregnancy outcomes</article-title><source>BMC Pregnancy Childbirth</source><year>2022</year><volume>22</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>764</fpage><?supplied-pmid 36224521?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36224521</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR10" publication-type="journal">Niknam A, Ramezani Tehrani F, Behboudi-Gandevani S, Rahmati M, Hedayati M, Abedini M, et al. Umbilical cord blood concentration of connecting peptide (C-peptide) and pregnancy outcomes. BMC Pregnancy Childbirth. 2022;22(1):764.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36224521</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR11"><label>11.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR11" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lappas</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Jinks</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Ugoni</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Louizos</surname><given-names>CCJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Permezel</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Georgiou</surname><given-names>HM</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Post-partum plasma C-peptide and ghrelin concentrations are predictive of type 2 diabetes in women with previous gestational diabetes mellitus</article-title><source>J Diabetes</source><year>2015</year><volume>7</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>506</fpage><lpage>511</lpage><?supplied-pmid 25168970?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25168970</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR11" publication-type="journal">Lappas M, Jinks D, Ugoni A, Louizos CCJ, Permezel M, Georgiou HM, et al. Post-partum plasma C-peptide and ghrelin concentrations are predictive of type 2 diabetes in women with previous gestational diabetes mellitus. J Diabetes. 2015;7(4):506&#x02013;11.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25168970</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR12"><label>12.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR12" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Gong</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Q</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Kang</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Heterogeneity of gestational diabetes and risk for adverse pregnancy outcome: a cohort study</article-title><source>J Clin Endocrinol Metab</source><year>2025</year><volume>110</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>e2264</fpage><lpage>e2272</lpage><?supplied-pmid 39446494?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39446494</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR12" publication-type="journal">Gong Y, Wang Q, Chen S, Liu Y, Li C, Kang R, et al. Heterogeneity of gestational diabetes and risk for adverse pregnancy outcome: a cohort study. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2025;110(7):e2264&#x02013;72.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39446494</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR13"><label>13.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR13" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Shen</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Zheng</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Su</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Jiang</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Ma</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Hu</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Insulin sensitivity, &#x003b2; cell function, and adverse pregnancy outcomes in women with gestational diabetes</article-title><source>Chin Med J (Engl)</source><year>2022</year><volume>135</volume><issue>21</issue><fpage>2541</fpage><lpage>2546</lpage><?supplied-pmid 36583917?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36583917</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR13" publication-type="journal">Shen Y, Zheng Y, Su Y, Jiang S, Ma X, Hu J, et al. Insulin sensitivity, &#x003b2; cell function, and adverse pregnancy outcomes in women with gestational diabetes. Chin Med J (Engl). 2022;135(21):2541&#x02013;6.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36583917</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR14"><label>14.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Obstetrics Subgroup, Chinese Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Chinese Medical Association. Guideline of preconception and prenatal care (2018). Chin J Obstet Gynecol. 2018;53(1):7&#x02013;13. Chinese.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR15"><label>15.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR15" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Hulman</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Witte</surname><given-names>DR</given-names></name><name><surname>Vistisen</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Balkau</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Dekker</surname><given-names>JM</given-names></name><name><surname>Herder</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Pathophysiological characteristics underlying different glucose response curves: a latent class trajectory analysis from the prospective EGIR-RISC study</article-title><source>Diabetes Care</source><year>2018</year><volume>41</volume><issue>8</issue><fpage>1740</fpage><lpage>1748</lpage><?supplied-pmid 29853473?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29853473</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR15" publication-type="journal">Hulman A, Witte DR, Vistisen D, Balkau B, Dekker JM, Herder C, et al. Pathophysiological characteristics underlying different glucose response curves: a latent class trajectory analysis from the prospective EGIR-RISC study. Diabetes Care. 2018;41(8):1740&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29853473</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR16"><label>16.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR16" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Tric&#x000f2;</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>McCollum</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Samuels</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Santoro</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Galderisi</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Groop</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Mechanistic insights into the heterogeneity of glucose response classes in youths with obesity: a latent class trajectory approach</article-title><source>Diabetes Care</source><year>2022</year><volume>45</volume><issue>8</issue><fpage>1841</fpage><lpage>1851</lpage><?supplied-pmid 35766976?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35766976</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR16" publication-type="journal">Tric&#x000f2; D, McCollum S, Samuels S, Santoro N, Galderisi A, Groop L, et al. Mechanistic insights into the heterogeneity of glucose response classes in youths with obesity: a latent class trajectory approach. Diabetes Care. 2022;45(8):1841&#x02013;51.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35766976</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR17"><label>17.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR17" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ji</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>He</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Qu</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Gao</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The Xi'an longitudinal mother&#x02013;child cohort study: design, study population and methods</article-title><source>Eur J Epidemiol</source><year>2021</year><volume>36</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>223</fpage><lpage>232</lpage><?supplied-pmid 33420871?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33420871</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR17" publication-type="journal">Ji J, He Z, Qu P, Gao J, Zhang W, Wu P, et al. The Xi&#x02019;an longitudinal mother&#x02013;child cohort study: design, study population and methods. Eur J Epidemiol. 2021;36(2):223&#x02013;32.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33420871</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR18"><label>18.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR18" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><collab>International Association of Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Groups Consensus Panel</collab><name><surname>Metzger</surname><given-names>BE</given-names></name><name><surname>Gabbe</surname><given-names>SG</given-names></name><name><surname>Persson</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Buchanan</surname><given-names>TA</given-names></name><name><surname>Catalano</surname><given-names>PA</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>International association of diabetes and pregnancy study groups recommendations on the diagnosis and classification of hyperglycemia in pregnancy</article-title><source>Diabetes Care.</source><year>2010</year><volume>33</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>676</fpage><lpage>82</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20190296</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR18" publication-type="journal">International Association of Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Groups Consensus Panel, Metzger BE, Gabbe SG, Persson B, Buchanan TA, Catalano PA, et al. International association of diabetes and pregnancy study groups recommendations on the diagnosis and classification of hyperglycemia in pregnancy. Diabetes Care. 2010;33(3):676&#x02013;82.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20190296</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR19"><label>19.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR19" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Matthews</surname><given-names>DR</given-names></name><name><surname>Hosker</surname><given-names>JP</given-names></name><name><surname>Rudenski</surname><given-names>AS</given-names></name><name><surname>Naylor</surname><given-names>BA</given-names></name><name><surname>Treacher</surname><given-names>DF</given-names></name><name><surname>Turner</surname><given-names>RC</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Homeostasis model assessment: insulin resistance and beta-cell function from fasting plasma glucose and insulin concentrations in man</article-title><source>Diabetologia</source><year>1985</year><volume>28</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>412</fpage><lpage>419</lpage><?supplied-pmid 3899825?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">3899825</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR19" publication-type="journal">Matthews DR, Hosker JP, Rudenski AS, Naylor BA, Treacher DF, Turner RC. Homeostasis model assessment: insulin resistance and beta-cell function from fasting plasma glucose and insulin concentrations in man. Diabetologia. 1985;28(7):412&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">3899825</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR20"><label>20.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR20" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Matsuda</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>DeFronzo</surname><given-names>RA</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Insulin sensitivity indices obtained from oral glucose tolerance testing: comparison with the euglycemic insulin clamp</article-title><source>Diabetes Care</source><year>1999</year><volume>22</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>1462</fpage><lpage>1470</lpage><?supplied-pmid 10480510?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">10480510</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR20" publication-type="journal">Matsuda M, DeFronzo RA. Insulin sensitivity indices obtained from oral glucose tolerance testing: comparison with the euglycemic insulin clamp. Diabetes Care. 1999;22(9):1462&#x02013;70.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">10480510</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR21"><label>21.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR21" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Katz</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Nambi</surname><given-names>SS</given-names></name><name><surname>Mather</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Baron</surname><given-names>AD</given-names></name><name><surname>Follmann</surname><given-names>DA</given-names></name><name><surname>Sullivan</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Quantitative insulin sensitivity check index: a simple, accurate method for assessing insulin sensitivity in humans</article-title><source>J Clin Endocrinol Metab</source><year>2000</year><volume>85</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>2402</fpage><lpage>2410</lpage><?supplied-pmid 10902785?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">10902785</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR21" publication-type="journal">Katz A, Nambi SS, Mather K, Baron AD, Follmann DA, Sullivan G, et al. Quantitative insulin sensitivity check index: a simple, accurate method for assessing insulin sensitivity in humans. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2000;85(7):2402&#x02013;10.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">10902785</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR22"><label>22.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR22" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Retnakaran</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Qi</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Goran</surname><given-names>MI</given-names></name><name><surname>Hamilton</surname><given-names>JK</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Evaluation of proposed oral disposition index measures in relation to the actual disposition index</article-title><source>Diabet Med</source><year>2009</year><volume>26</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>1198</fpage><lpage>1203</lpage><?supplied-pmid 20002470?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20002470</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR22" publication-type="journal">Retnakaran R, Qi Y, Goran MI, Hamilton JK. Evaluation of proposed oral disposition index measures in relation to the actual disposition index. Diabet Med. 2009;26(12):1198&#x02013;203.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20002470</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR23"><label>23.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR23" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Mari</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Tura</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Natali</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Anderwald</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Balkau</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Lalic</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Influence of hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance on in vivo &#x003b2;-cell function: their role in human &#x003b2;-cell dysfunction</article-title><source>Diabetes</source><year>2011</year><volume>60</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>3141</fpage><lpage>3147</lpage><?supplied-pmid 22028180?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22028180</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR23" publication-type="journal">Mari A, Tura A, Natali A, Anderwald C, Balkau B, Lalic N, et al. Influence of hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance on in vivo &#x003b2;-cell function: their role in human &#x003b2;-cell dysfunction. Diabetes. 2011;60(12):3141&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22028180</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR24"><label>24.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR24" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Parker</surname><given-names>SE</given-names></name><name><surname>Carlson</surname><given-names>JM</given-names></name><name><surname>Kebede</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Werler</surname><given-names>MM</given-names></name><name><surname>Janulewicz</surname><given-names>PA</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Pre-pregnancy body mass index and parent and teacher-reported behavioral outcomes among offspring in childhood</article-title><source>Neurotoxicol Teratol</source><year>2022</year><volume>89</volume><fpage>107049</fpage><?supplied-pmid 34780987?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34780987</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR24" publication-type="journal">Parker SE, Carlson JM, Kebede N, Werler MM, Janulewicz PA. Pre-pregnancy body mass index and parent and teacher-reported behavioral outcomes among offspring in childhood. Neurotoxicol Teratol. 2022;89: 107049.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34780987</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR25"><label>25.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">National Health Commission of the People's Republic of China. Standard of recommendation for weight gain during pregnancy period (WS/T 801&#x02014;2022). Beijing: National Health Commission of China; 2022. Available from: <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://www.nhc.gov.cn/wjw/c100311/202208/deb61e5c2299451ea1b957b0672272b3.shtml">https://www.nhc.gov.cn/wjw/c100311/202208/deb61e5c2299451ea1b957b0672272b3.shtml</ext-link>. Cited 2025 Jul 5.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR26"><label>26.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">National Health Commission of the People's Republic of China. Growth standard for newborns by gestational age (WS/T 800&#x02013;2022). Beijing: National Health Commission of China; 2022. Available from: <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://www.nhc.gov.cn/wjw/c100311/202208/deb61e5c2299451ea1b957b0672272b3.shtml">https://www.nhc.gov.cn/wjw/c100311/202208/deb61e5c2299451ea1b957b0672272b3.shtml</ext-link> . Cited 2025 Jul 5.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR27"><label>27.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR27" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Green</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Myers</surname><given-names>JE</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy</article-title><source>BMJ</source><year>2023</year><volume>381</volume><fpage>e071653</fpage><?supplied-pmid 37391211?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37391211</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR27" publication-type="journal">Wu P, Green M, Myers JE. Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy. BMJ. 2023;381: e071653.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37391211</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR28"><label>28.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR28" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Stagnaro-Green</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Abalovich</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Alexander</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Azizi</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Mestman</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Negro</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Guidelines of the American Thyroid Association for the diagnosis and management of thyroid disease during pregnancy and postpartum</article-title><source>Thyroid</source><year>2011</year><volume>21</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>1081</fpage><lpage>1125</lpage><?supplied-pmid 21787128?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21787128</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR28" publication-type="journal">Stagnaro-Green A, Abalovich M, Alexander E, Azizi F, Mestman J, Negro R, et al. Guidelines of the American Thyroid Association for the diagnosis and management of thyroid disease during pregnancy and postpartum. Thyroid. 2011;21(10):1081&#x02013;125.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21787128</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR29"><label>29.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR29" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Cosson</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Tatulashvili</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Vicaut</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Pinto</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Sal</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Nachtergaele</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Glycemic status during pregnancy according to fasting and post-load glucose values: The association with adverse pregnancy outcomes</article-title><source>An observational study Diabetes Metab</source><year>2023</year><volume>49</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>101469</fpage><?supplied-pmid 37648077?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37648077</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR29" publication-type="journal">Cosson E, Tatulashvili S, Vicaut E, Pinto S, Sal M, Nachtergaele C, et al. Glycemic status during pregnancy according to fasting and post-load glucose values: The association with adverse pregnancy outcomes. An observational study Diabetes Metab. 2023;49(5): 101469.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37648077</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR30"><label>30.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR30" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Luppi</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Drain</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>C-peptide antioxidant adaptive pathways in &#x003b2; cells and diabetes</article-title><source>J Intern Med</source><year>2017</year><volume>281</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>7</fpage><lpage>24</lpage><?supplied-pmid 27251308?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27251308</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR30" publication-type="journal">Luppi P, Drain P. C-peptide antioxidant adaptive pathways in &#x003b2; cells and diabetes. J Intern Med. 2017;281(1):7&#x02013;24.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27251308</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR31"><label>31.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR31" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>MH</given-names></name><name><surname>Febriana</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Lim</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Baig</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Shen</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Dalakoti</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Performance of the 1 h oral glucose tolerance test in predicting type 2 diabetes and association with impaired &#x003b2;-cell function in Asians: a national prospective cohort study</article-title><source>Lancet Reg Health West Pac</source><year>2024</year><volume>54</volume><fpage>101278</fpage><?supplied-pmid 39840148?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39840148</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR31" publication-type="journal">Lee MH, Febriana E, Lim M, Baig S, Shen L, Dalakoti M, et al. Performance of the 1 h oral glucose tolerance test in predicting type 2 diabetes and association with impaired &#x003b2;-cell function in Asians: a national prospective cohort study. Lancet Reg Health West Pac. 2024;54: 101278.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39840148</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR32"><label>32.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR32" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Gedebjerg</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Bjerre</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Kj&#x000e6;rgaard</surname><given-names>AD</given-names></name><name><surname>Nielsen</surname><given-names>JS</given-names></name><name><surname>Rungby</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Brandslund</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>CRP, C-peptide, and risk of first-time cardiovascular events and mortality in early type 2 diabetes: a Danish cohort study</article-title><source>Diabetes Care</source><year>2023</year><volume>46</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>1037</fpage><lpage>1045</lpage><?supplied-pmid 36930691?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36930691</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR32" publication-type="journal">Gedebjerg A, Bjerre M, Kj&#x000e6;rgaard AD, Nielsen JS, Rungby J, Brandslund I, et al. CRP, C-peptide, and risk of first-time cardiovascular events and mortality in early type 2 diabetes: a Danish cohort study. Diabetes Care. 2023;46(5):1037&#x02013;45.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36930691</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR33"><label>33.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR33" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Claremeau</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Bale</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Lanthier</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Cirrhosis and insulin resistance: current knowledge, pathophysiological mechanisms, complications and potential treatments</article-title><source>Clin Sci (Lond)</source><year>2020</year><volume>134</volume><issue>16</issue><fpage>2117</fpage><lpage>2135</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32820802</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR33" publication-type="journal">Claremeau F, Bale G, Lanthier N. Cirrhosis and insulin resistance: current knowledge, pathophysiological mechanisms, complications and potential treatments. Clin Sci (Lond). 2020;134(16):2117&#x02013;35.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32820802</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR34"><label>34.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR34" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Anoop</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Misra</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Bhatt</surname><given-names>SP</given-names></name><name><surname>Gulati</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Mahajan</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>High fasting C-peptide levels and insulin resistance in non-lean &#x00026; non-obese (BMI &#x0003e;19 to &#x0003c;25 kg/m<sup>2</sup>) Asian Indians with type 2 diabetes are independently associated with high intra-abdominal fat and liver span</article-title><source>Diabetes Metab Syndr</source><year>2019</year><volume>13</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>708</fpage><lpage>715</lpage><?supplied-pmid 30641793?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30641793</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR34" publication-type="journal">Anoop S, Misra A, Bhatt SP, Gulati S, Mahajan H. High fasting C-peptide levels and insulin resistance in non-lean &#x00026; non-obese (BMI &#x0003e;19 to &#x0003c;25 kg/m<sup>2</sup>) Asian Indians with type 2 diabetes are independently associated with high intra-abdominal fat and liver span. Diabetes Metab Syndr. 2019;13(1):708&#x02013;15.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30641793</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR35"><label>35.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR35" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Francis</surname><given-names>EC</given-names></name><name><surname>Powe</surname><given-names>CE</given-names></name><name><surname>Lowe</surname><given-names>WL</given-names><suffix>Jr</suffix></name><name><surname>White</surname><given-names>SL</given-names></name><name><surname>Scholtens</surname><given-names>DM</given-names></name><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Refining the diagnosis of gestational diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis</article-title><source>Commun Med (Lond)</source><year>2023</year><volume>3</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>185</fpage><?supplied-pmid 38110524?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38110524</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR35" publication-type="journal">Francis EC, Powe CE, Lowe WL Jr, White SL, Scholtens DM, Yang J, et al. Refining the diagnosis of gestational diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Commun Med (Lond). 2023;3(1):185.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38110524</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR36"><label>36.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR36" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Liang</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Fu</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Lu</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Shuai</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Miao</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Gou</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Continuous glucose monitoring-derived glycemic metrics and adverse pregnancy outcomes among women with gestational diabetes: a prospective cohort study</article-title><source>Lancet Reg Health West Pac</source><year>2023</year><volume>39</volume><fpage>100823</fpage><?supplied-pmid 37927990?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37927990</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR36" publication-type="journal">Liang X, Fu Y, Lu S, Shuai M, Miao Z, Gou W, et al. Continuous glucose monitoring-derived glycemic metrics and adverse pregnancy outcomes among women with gestational diabetes: a prospective cohort study. Lancet Reg Health West Pac. 2023;39: 100823.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37927990</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR37"><label>37.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR37" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Liong</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Lappas</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Lipopolysaccharide and double stranded viral RNA mediate insulin resistance and increase system a amino acid transport in human trophoblast cells in vitro</article-title><source>Placenta</source><year>2017</year><volume>51</volume><fpage>18</fpage><lpage>27</lpage><?supplied-pmid 28292465?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28292465</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR37" publication-type="journal">Liong S, Lappas M. Lipopolysaccharide and double stranded viral RNA mediate insulin resistance and increase system a amino acid transport in human trophoblast cells in vitro. Placenta. 2017;51:18&#x02013;27.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28292465</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR38"><label>38.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR38" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Powe</surname><given-names>CE</given-names></name><name><surname>Allard</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Battista</surname><given-names>MC</given-names></name><name><surname>Doyon</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Bouchard</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Ecker</surname><given-names>JL</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Heterogeneous contribution of insulin sensitivity and secretion defects to gestational diabetes mellitus</article-title><source>Diabetes Care</source><year>2016</year><volume>39</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>1052</fpage><lpage>1055</lpage><?supplied-pmid 27208340?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27208340</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR38" publication-type="journal">Powe CE, Allard C, Battista MC, Doyon M, Bouchard L, Ecker JL, et al. Heterogeneous contribution of insulin sensitivity and secretion defects to gestational diabetes mellitus. Diabetes Care. 2016;39(6):1052&#x02013;5.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27208340</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR39"><label>39.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR39" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Benhalima</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Van Crombrugge</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Moyson</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Verhaeghe</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Vandeginste</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Verlaenen</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Characteristics and pregnancy outcomes across gestational diabetes mellitus subtypes based on insulin resistance</article-title><source>Diabetologia</source><year>2019</year><volume>62</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>2118</fpage><lpage>2128</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31338546?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31338546</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR39" publication-type="journal">Benhalima K, Van Crombrugge P, Moyson C, Verhaeghe J, Vandeginste S, Verlaenen H, et al. Characteristics and pregnancy outcomes across gestational diabetes mellitus subtypes based on insulin resistance. Diabetologia. 2019;62(11):2118&#x02013;28.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31338546</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR40"><label>40.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR40" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>KJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>NH</given-names></name><name><surname>Choi</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>SG</given-names></name><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>KJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>How can we adopt the glucose tolerance test to facilitate predicting pregnancy outcome in gestational diabetes mellitus?</article-title><source>Endocrinol Metab (Seoul)</source><year>2021</year><volume>36</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>988</fpage><lpage>996</lpage><?supplied-pmid 34649416?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34649416</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR40" publication-type="journal">Kim KJ, Kim NH, Choi J, Kim SG, Lee KJ. How can we adopt the glucose tolerance test to facilitate predicting pregnancy outcome in gestational diabetes mellitus? Endocrinol Metab (Seoul). 2021;36(5):988&#x02013;96.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34649416</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR41"><label>41.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Obstetrics Subgroup, Chinese Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Chinese Medical Association, Chinese Society of Perinatal Medicine, Chinese Medical Association, Commitee of Pregnancy with Diabetes Mellitus, China Maternal and Child Health Association. Guideline of diagnosis and treatment of hyperglycemia in pregnancy (2022) [Part one]. Chin J Obstet Gynecol. 2022;57(1):3&#x02013;12.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR42"><label>42.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR42" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Mastrototaro</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Roden</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Insulin resistance and insulin sensitizing agents</article-title><source>Metabolism</source><year>2021</year><volume>125</volume><fpage>154892</fpage><?supplied-pmid 34563556?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34563556</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR42" publication-type="journal">Mastrototaro L, Roden M. Insulin resistance and insulin sensitizing agents. Metabolism. 2021;125: 154892.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34563556</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR43"><label>43.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR43" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Manco</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Panunzi</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Macfarlane</surname><given-names>DP</given-names></name><name><surname>Golay</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Melander</surname><given-names>O</given-names></name><name><surname>Konrad</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>One-hour plasma glucose identifies insulin resistance and beta-cell dysfunction in individuals with normal glucose tolerance: cross-sectional data from the Relationship between Insulin Sensitivity and Cardiovascular Risk (RISC) study</article-title><source>Diabetes Care</source><year>2010</year><volume>33</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>2090</fpage><lpage>2097</lpage><?supplied-pmid 20805281?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20805281</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR43" publication-type="journal">Manco M, Panunzi S, Macfarlane DP, Golay A, Melander O, Konrad T, et al. One-hour plasma glucose identifies insulin resistance and beta-cell dysfunction in individuals with normal glucose tolerance: cross-sectional data from the Relationship between Insulin Sensitivity and Cardiovascular Risk (RISC) study. Diabetes Care. 2010;33(9):2090&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20805281</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR44"><label>44.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR44" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Wan</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Xia</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association of C-peptide with diabetic vascular complications in type 2 diabetes</article-title><source>Diabetes Metab</source><year>2020</year><volume>46</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>33</fpage><lpage>40</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31026551?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31026551</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR44" publication-type="journal">Wang Y, Wan H, Chen Y, Xia F, Zhang W, Wang C, et al. Association of C-peptide with diabetic vascular complications in type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Metab. 2020;46(1):33&#x02013;40.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31026551</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR45"><label>45.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR45" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ferrara</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Hedderson</surname><given-names>MM</given-names></name><name><surname>Brown</surname><given-names>SD</given-names></name><name><surname>Ehrlich</surname><given-names>SF</given-names></name><name><surname>Tsai</surname><given-names>AL</given-names></name><name><surname>Feng</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>A telehealth lifestyle intervention to reduce excess gestational weight gain in pregnant women with overweight or obesity (GLOW): a randomised, parallel-group, controlled trial</article-title><source>Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol</source><year>2020</year><volume>8</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>490</fpage><lpage>500</lpage><?supplied-pmid 32445736?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32445736</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR45" publication-type="journal">Ferrara A, Hedderson MM, Brown SD, Ehrlich SF, Tsai AL, Feng J, et al. A telehealth lifestyle intervention to reduce excess gestational weight gain in pregnant women with overweight or obesity (GLOW): a randomised, parallel-group, controlled trial. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol. 2020;8(6):490&#x02013;500.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32445736</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR46"><label>46.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR46" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Borges</surname><given-names>MC</given-names></name><name><surname>Clayton</surname><given-names>GL</given-names></name><name><surname>Freathy</surname><given-names>RM</given-names></name><name><surname>Felix</surname><given-names>JF</given-names></name><name><surname>Fern&#x000e1;ndez-Sanl&#x000e9;s</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Soares</surname><given-names>AG</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Integrating multiple lines of evidence to assess the effects of maternal BMI on pregnancy and perinatal outcomes</article-title><source>BMC Med</source><year>2024</year><volume>22</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>32</fpage><?supplied-pmid 38281920?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38281920</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR46" publication-type="journal">Borges MC, Clayton GL, Freathy RM, Felix JF, Fern&#x000e1;ndez-Sanl&#x000e9;s A, Soares AG, et al. Integrating multiple lines of evidence to assess the effects of maternal BMI on pregnancy and perinatal outcomes. BMC Med. 2024;22(1):32.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38281920</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR47"><label>47.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR47" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>HHauth</surname><given-names>JC</given-names></name><name><surname>Clifton</surname><given-names>RG</given-names></name><name><surname>Roberts</surname><given-names>JM</given-names></name><name><surname>Myatt</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Spong</surname><given-names>CY</given-names></name><name><surname>Leveno</surname><given-names>KJ</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Maternal insulin resistance and preeclampsia</article-title><source>Am J Obstet Gynecol.</source><year>2011</year><volume>204</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>327</fpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR47" publication-type="journal">HHauth JC, Clifton RG, Roberts JM, Myatt L, Spong CY, Leveno KJ, et al. Maternal insulin resistance and preeclampsia. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2011;204(4):327 e1&#x02013;6.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref></ref-list></back></article>