# Impact of antihypertensive drug classes on cardiovascular outcomes: insights from the STEP study.

<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//NLM//DTD JATS (Z39.96) Journal Archiving and Interchange DTD with MathML3 v1.3 20210610//EN" "JATS-archivearticle1-3-mathml3.dtd"> 
<article xmlns:ali="http://www.niso.org/schemas/ali/1.0/" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" article-type="research-article" dtd-version="1.3"><?properties open_access?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierValue -//Springer-Verlag//DTD A++ V2.4//EN?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierType public?><?SourceDTD.DTDName A++V2.4.dtd?><?SourceDTD.Version 2.4?><?ConverterInfo.XSLTName springer2nlmx2.xsl?><?ConverterInfo.Version 1?><processing-meta base-tagset="archiving" mathml-version="3.0" table-model="xhtml" tagset-family="jats"><restricted-by>pmc</restricted-by></processing-meta><front><journal-meta><journal-id journal-id-type="nlm-ta">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-id journal-id-type="iso-abbrev">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-title-group><journal-title>BMC Medicine</journal-title></journal-title-group><issn pub-type="epub">1741-7015</issn><publisher><publisher-name>BioMed Central</publisher-name><publisher-loc>London</publisher-loc></publisher></journal-meta>
<article-meta><article-id pub-id-type="pmcid">12219695</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="pmid">40598287</article-id>
<article-id pub-id-type="publisher-id">4158</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12916-025-04158-z</article-id><article-categories><subj-group subj-group-type="heading"><subject>Research</subject></subj-group></article-categories><title-group><article-title>Impact of antihypertensive drug classes on cardiovascular outcomes: insights from the STEP study</article-title></title-group><contrib-group><contrib contrib-type="author" equal-contrib="yes"><name><surname>Peng</surname><given-names>Xinyi</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" equal-contrib="yes"><name><surname>Olsen</surname><given-names>Michael Hecht</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff4">4</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" equal-contrib="yes"><name><surname>Pareek</surname><given-names>Manan</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff5">5</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff6">6</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Bai</surname><given-names>Jingjing</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>Yang</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff7">7</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Song</surname><given-names>Qirui</given-names></name><address><email>songqirui1995@163.com</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Cai</surname><given-names>Jun</given-names></name><address><email>caijun7879@126.com</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><aff id="Aff1"><label>1</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/02drdmm93</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.506261.6</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 0706 7839</institution-id><institution>State Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular Disease of China, National Center for Cardiovascular Diseases of China, </institution><institution>Hypertension Center, Fuwai Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, </institution></institution-wrap>Beilishi Rd. 167, Xicheng District , Beijing, 100037 China </aff><aff id="Aff2"><label>2</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/02h2j1586</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.411606.4</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 1761 5917</institution-id><institution> Beijing Institute of Heart, Lung and Blood Vessel Diseases, </institution><institution>Beijing Anzhen Hospital, Capital Medical University, </institution></institution-wrap>Beijing, China </aff><aff id="Aff3"><label>3</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/035b05819</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.5254.6</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 0674 042X</institution-id><institution>Department of Clinical Medicine, </institution><institution>University of Copenhagen, </institution></institution-wrap>Copenhagen, Denmark </aff><aff id="Aff4"><label>4</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/03w7awk87</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.419658.7</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 0646 7285</institution-id><institution>Department of Internal Medicine 1 and Steno Diabetes Center Zealand, </institution><institution>Holb&#x000e6;k Hospital, </institution></institution-wrap>Holb&#x000e6;k, Denmark </aff><aff id="Aff5"><label>5</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/03mchdq19</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.475435.4</institution-id><institution>Department of Cardiology, </institution><institution>Copenhagen University Hospital&#x02014;Rigshospitalet, </institution></institution-wrap>Copenhagen, Denmark </aff><aff id="Aff6"><label>6</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/05bpbnx46</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.4973.9</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 0646 7373</institution-id><institution>Center for Translational Cardiology and Pragmatic Randomized Trials, Department of Cardiology, </institution><institution>Copenhagen University Hospital&#x02014;Herlev and Gentofte, </institution></institution-wrap>Hellerup, Denmark </aff><aff id="Aff7"><label>7</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/02v51f717</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.11135.37</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 2256 9319</institution-id><institution>Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, </institution><institution>Peking University, </institution></institution-wrap>Beijing, China </aff></contrib-group><pub-date pub-type="epub"><day>1</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="pmc-release"><day>1</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="collection"><year>2025</year></pub-date><volume>23</volume><elocation-id>365</elocation-id><history><date date-type="received"><day>12</day><month>10</month><year>2024</year></date><date date-type="accepted"><day>20</day><month>5</month><year>2025</year></date></history><permissions><copyright-statement>&#x000a9; The Author(s) 2025</copyright-statement><copyright-year>2025</copyright-year><license><ali:license_ref specific-use="textmining" content-type="ccbyncndlicense">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ali:license_ref><license-p><bold>Open Access</bold> This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed material. You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/">http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ext-link>.</license-p></license></permissions><abstract id="Abs1"><sec><title>Background</title><p id="Par11">The optimal class of antihypertensive drugs for reducing cardiovascular risk remains unclear. This study investigated whether prolonged exposure to specific antihypertensive drug classes is associated with lower cardiovascular risk in individuals with well-controlled blood pressure.</p></sec><sec><title>Methods</title><p id="Par12">This study utilised data from the STEP trial, which enrolled elderly, hypertensive Chinese patients with no history of stroke. After excluding 234 patients lost to follow-up and 20 patients without blood pressure records after randomisation, 8257 patients were included. The relative time on each antihypertensive drug (medication time/event time) was calculated. The primary outcome was a composite of the first occurrence of stroke, acute coronary syndrome (ACS), acute decompensated heart failure, coronary revascularisation, atrial fibrillation, and cardiovascular death. Secondary endpoints included individual components of the primary outcome. Cox regression analysis was used to estimate hazard ratios (HRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for each outcome.</p></sec><sec><title>Results</title><p id="Par13">Over a median 3.34&#x000a0;years follow-up, primary outcome analysis revealed that longer relative exposure to angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) or calcium channel blockers (CCBs) significantly reduced cardiovascular risk. Each unit increase in relative time on ARBs was associated with a 45% lower risk of the primary outcome (HR 0.55, 95% CI 0.43&#x02013;0.70), whereas CCBs reduced risk by 30% (HR 0.70, 95% CI 0.54&#x02013;0.92). Diuretics demonstrated neutral results. Conversely, longer relative time on beta-blockers was linked to a higher primary outcome risk (HR 2.20, 95% CI 1.81&#x02013;2.68). Regarding secondary outcomes, extended exposure to both ARBs and CCBs was significantly associated with lower risks of all-cause and cardiovascular mortality. Longer exposure to ARBs produced additional benefits by reducing risks of stroke, ACS, and major adverse cardiac events (MACE). The HRs for ARBs per-unit increase in relative time remained consistently lower than those of CCBs across the primary outcome, MACE, and stroke (all <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05).</p></sec><sec><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par14">This post hoc analysis suggested that ARBs and CCBs might be more favourable for composite cardiovascular outcomes than diuretics and beta-blockers. ARBs appeared to offer greater cardiovascular benefits than CCBs. Longer exposure to beta-blockers was associated with a higher cardiovascular risk, which might reflect a selection bias based on medical indications.</p></sec><sec><title>Trial registration</title><p id="Par15">STEP ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT03015311. Registered 2 January 2017.</p></sec><sec><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12916-025-04158-z.</p></sec></abstract><kwd-group xml:lang="en"><title>Keywords</title><kwd>Angiotensin II receptor blocker</kwd><kwd>Calcium channel blocker</kwd><kwd>First-line antihypertensive drug</kwd><kwd>Antihypertensive drug class</kwd><kwd>Cardiovascular outcomes</kwd></kwd-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>China Postdoctoral Science Foundation</institution></funding-source><award-id>2023M740322</award-id></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>Postdoctoral Fellowship Program of CPSF</institution></funding-source><award-id>GZC20240148</award-id></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>CAMS Innovation Fund for Medical Sciences</institution></funding-source><award-id>CIFMS, 2021-I2M-1-007</award-id></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>National High Level Hospital Clinical Research Funding</institution></funding-source><award-id>2022-GSP-GG-5</award-id></award-group></funding-group><custom-meta-group><custom-meta><meta-name>issue-copyright-statement</meta-name><meta-value>&#x000a9; BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2025</meta-value></custom-meta></custom-meta-group></article-meta></front><body><sec id="Sec1"><title>Introduction</title><p id="Par32">Hypertension is a significant global health concern, particularly in China and is a major risk factor for cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) and mortality [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>]. Systematic reviews and meta-analyses have shown that lowering blood pressure with antihypertensive drugs effectively reduces major cardiovascular events and mortality [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>]; this benefit is primarily attributed to the extent of blood pressure reduction rather than the specific properties of individual drug classes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>]. However, different classes of antihypertensive drugs have been reported to exert distinct effects on specific cardiovascular outcomes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>].
</p><p id="Par33">Despite extensive research, evidence on comparative effectiveness of different antihypertensive drug classes remains inconsistent, and clinical guidelines vary significantly. The 2017 American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Blood Pressure Treatment Guidelines [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>] recommended thiazide or thiazide-like diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs), angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs), or calcium channel blockers (CCBs) as first-line agents. The 2023 European Society of Hypertension Guidelines provide a comparable broad recommendation, but also include beta-blockers as first-line option [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>]. The NICE (National Institute for Health and Care Excellence) guideline recommends ACEIs or ARBs as first-line treatment for patients with type 2 diabetes, or for adults younger than 55 years who are not of Black African or African Caribbean family origin; for all other patient groups, CCBs are recommended [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>]. These inconsistencies highlight the need for further research to identify which antihypertensive drug class provides the most favourable cardiovascular outcomes and should be prioritised as the optimal first-line antihypertensive therapy. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate whether prolonged exposure to specific antihypertensive drug classes is associated with a reduced risk of composite cardiac outcome in individuals with well-controlled blood pressure, using data from the STEP (Strategy of Blood Pressure Intervention in the Elderly Hypertensive Patients) trial.</p></sec><sec id="Sec2"><title>Methods</title><sec id="Sec3"><title>Study population</title><p id="Par34">We conducted a post hoc analysis of the STEP trial, as described in more detail in previously published studies [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>]. Briefly, the STEP trial was an open-label, multicentre, randomised controlled trial conducted between January 10, 2017 and December 31, 2020. The trial included 8511 participants with hypertension aged 60&#x02013;80 years in China, all of whom had no history of ischaemic or haemorrhagic stroke. Eligible individuals were randomly assigned to either the intensive or standard treatment group. The study defined two systolic blood pressure (SBP) targets: an intensive treatment range of 110 to less than 130 mm Hg and a standard treatment range of 130 to less than 150 mm Hg. All participants were scheduled for monthly follow-up visits during the first 3&#x000a0;months and subsequently every 3&#x000a0;months until the final visit or death. For the present analysis, we excluded participants who were lost to follow-up during the study (<italic>N</italic>&#x02009;= 234) and those with missing post-randomisation blood pressure records (<italic>N</italic>&#x02009;= 20) (Additional file 1: Fig. S1).</p></sec><sec id="Sec4"><title>Exposure and clinical outcomes</title><p id="Par35">In the STEP trial, participants received free antihypertensive medications upon enrolment, including olmesartan (an ARB), amlodipine (a CCB), and hydrochlorothiazide (a diuretic). At the start of the trial, participants were initiated on olmesartan-medoxomil tablets as the preferred ARB or amlodipine tablets as the preferred CCB. Hydrochlorothiazide was not recommended as a primary monotherapy for the initial treatment. Other antihypertensive medications, such as beta-blockers, were allowed at the discretion of the investigators when deemed necessary and appropriate. Medication adjustments (dose increases and additional antihypertensive therapy) to achieve target SBP were based on office blood pressure measurements, which were evaluated monthly for the first 3&#x000a0;months and every 3&#x000a0;months thereafter. In the present study, we focused on four main classes of antihypertensive medications, categorised based on their pharmacological mechanisms: ARBs, CCBs, thiazide-type diuretics, and beta-blockers.</p><p id="Par36">The primary exposure of interest was the relative time for each class of antihypertensive medication, defined as the ratio of medication exposure time to event time. Medication exposure time was calculated as the number of days from the first prescription date to the discontinuation date during the follow-up period, the first event, or the end of the study, whichever came first. If a particular class of antihypertensive drug was discontinued at a clinical visit but reinitiated at a later visit, the days of exposure were added to the previous count. The visit data were used to calculate the medication time for the four medication classes.</p><p id="Par37">The primary outcome of this analysis was consistent with that used in the STEP trial [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>] and included a composite of the first occurrence of stroke (ischaemic or haemorrhagic), acute coronary syndrome (ACS; including acute myocardial infarction and hospitalisation for unstable angina), acute decompensated heart failure, coronary revascularisation, atrial fibrillation, and death from cardiovascular causes. Secondary outcomes included the individual components of the primary outcome, all-cause mortality, and major adverse cardiac events (MACE) (a composite of the individual components of the primary outcome, excluding stroke).</p></sec><sec id="Sec5"><title>Covariate measurements</title><p id="Par38">Participants&#x02019; office blood pressure measurements were taken by trained staff after a 5-min rest, with an average of three measurements recorded per visit. To ensure standardised measurement procedures, the same validated office sphygmomanometer (Omron Healthcare) was used across all study centres during enrolment and follow-up. Antihypertensive regimens before and after each visit were recorded in the STEP database. Laboratory examinations were performed at baseline and annually thereafter. Socio-demographic characteristics were collected through face-to-face interviews using standardised questionnaires administered by trained STEP physicians. Current smokers were defined as individuals who smoked at least one cigarette per day for more than 6&#x000a0;months. Current alcohol drinkers were defined as those who consumed alcohol at least once per month for more than 6&#x000a0;months. Body mass index was calculated as weight (kg) divided by height (m) squared. The estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) was calculated using the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease equation, with renal dysfunction defined as an eGFR &#x0003c;&#x02009;60 ml/min/1.73 m<sup>2</sup> [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec6"><title>Statistical methods</title><p id="Par39">Continuous variables were assessed for normality and are presented as mean &#x000b1;&#x02009;standard deviation, while categorical variables are presented as <italic>n</italic> (%). Baseline characteristics of the study sample were summarised by specific antihypertensive medication use and compared using a one-way analysis of variance for continuous variables and the chi-square (&#x003c7;<sup>2</sup>) test for categorical variables. The relative&#x000a0;time to the event of interest (medication time/event time) was calculated to account for the different survival times of the participants. Subsequently, the relative time was included as a continuous variable in the Cox regression analysis. Cox proportional hazards regression models were used to calculate the hazard ratio (HR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) for the primary and secondary outcomes of relative time for each antihypertensive drug class. The HRs were calculated per 1 unit increase (representing full-time drug use vs. not use) and per 0.1 unit increase&#x000a0;(representing a 10% longer duration of use) in relative time to assess the impact of changes in relative time on CVD risk. Three models were used in the analysis: model 1: unadjusted (crude) model. Model 2: adjusted for randomisation group, age, sex, body mass index, serum glucose, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, baseline SBP, and cumulative SBP. Model 3: extended model 2 by further adjusting for history of CVD and baseline renal dysfunction. The HRs for ARBs and CCBs were compared using a two-independent-samples <italic>t</italic>-test based on bootstrapped estimates (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;= 100) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>]. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to assess the robustness of the findings by excluding participants with a history of CVD or an eGFR &#x0003c;&#x02009;60 ml/min/1.73 m<sup>2</sup> at baseline. Considering that beta-blockers are often prescribed to patients with pre-existing cardiovascular conditions, a propensity score-matched analysis was applied to the relative time of beta-blockers to control for residual confounders and examine cardiovascular risk. All the analyses were performed using SAS (version 9.4; SAS Institute Inc., Cary, NC, USA). Statistical significance was set at <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c; 0.05. We did not adjust the CI or <italic>P</italic> values for multiple comparisons, and the findings were considered exploratory.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec7"><title>Results</title><p id="Par40">A total of 8257 patients were included in the analysis, and their baseline characteristics across different antihypertensive drug classes are summarised in Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref>. The percentage of each antihypertensive drug class regimen among study participants at baseline and follow-up visits for both the intensive and standard treatment groups was calculated and is presented in Additional file 1: Fig. S2. Among the participants in the standard group, major adjustments to antihypertensive drugs were completed within 6&#x000a0;months after randomisation and remained stable throughout the study period. In contrast, among the participants in the intensive treatment group, the use of ARBs, CCBs, and thiazide-type diuretics continued to increase beyond the initial 6-month adjustment period. Between baseline and 36 months of follow-up, the proportion of ARB use in the intensive group increased by 19.48%, while CCB use increased by 12.63%, and diuretic use by 10.86%, respectively. In the standard treatment group, the use of ARBs increased by 9.58%, whereas the use of thiazide-type diuretics and CCBs remained relatively stable. The frequency of beta-blocker regimens used in both the intensive and standard treatment groups remained stable from the baseline to the end of the study.
<table-wrap id="Tab1"><label>Table 1</label><caption><p>Baseline characteristics of participants using different antihypertensive drug classes</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left"/><th align="left">Total</th><th align="left">ARB</th><th align="left">CCB</th><th align="left">Diuretic</th><th align="left">Beta-blocker</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left"><italic>N</italic></td><td align="left">8257</td><td align="left">7124</td><td align="left">7620</td><td align="left">2254</td><td align="left">1083</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Age, years</td><td align="left">66.2 &#x000b1;&#x02009;4.8</td><td align="left">66.2 &#x000b1;&#x02009;4.8</td><td align="left">66.2 &#x000b1;&#x02009;4.8</td><td align="left">66.5 &#x000b1;&#x02009;4.9</td><td align="left">66.4 &#x000b1;&#x02009;4.9</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Male, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">3851 (46.6)</td><td align="left">3390 (47.6)</td><td align="left">3561 (46.7)</td><td align="left">1129 (50.1)</td><td align="left">531 (49.0)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">BMI, kg/m<sup>2</sup></td><td align="left">25.6 &#x000b1;&#x02009;3.2</td><td align="left">25.7 &#x000b1;&#x02009;3.2</td><td align="left">25.6 &#x000b1;&#x02009;3.2</td><td align="left">26.1 &#x000b1;&#x02009;3.3</td><td align="left">25.7 &#x000b1;&#x02009;3.4</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Heart rate, bpm</td><td align="left">73.5 &#x000b1;&#x02009;10.3</td><td align="left">73.6 &#x000b1;&#x02009;10.4</td><td align="left">73.6 &#x000b1;&#x02009;10.3</td><td align="left">73.6 &#x000b1;&#x02009;10.9</td><td align="left">74.2 &#x000b1;&#x02009;11.3</td></tr><tr><td align="left">SBP, mm Hg</td><td align="left">146.1 &#x000b1;&#x02009;16.7</td><td align="left">146.8 &#x000b1;&#x02009;16.7</td><td align="left">146.5 &#x000b1;&#x02009;16.6</td><td align="left">150.4 &#x000b1;&#x02009;17.2</td><td align="left">144.0 &#x000b1;&#x02009;17.0</td></tr><tr><td align="left">DBP, mm Hg</td><td align="left">82.5 &#x000b1;&#x02009;10.5</td><td align="left">82.8 &#x000b1;&#x02009;10.6</td><td align="left">82.6 &#x000b1;&#x02009;10.6</td><td align="left">83.5 &#x000b1;&#x02009;11.1</td><td align="left">81.6 &#x000b1;&#x02009;10.4</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="6">Smoking status, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Current, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">1328 (16.1)</td><td align="left">1182 (16.6)</td><td align="left">1247 (16.4)</td><td align="left">432 (19.2)</td><td align="left">192 (17.7)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Former, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">983 (11.9)</td><td align="left">865 (12.1)</td><td align="left">920 (12.1)</td><td align="left">309 (13.7)</td><td align="left">178 (16.4)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Never, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">5946 (72.0)</td><td align="left">5077 (71.3)</td><td align="left">5453 (71.6)</td><td align="left">1513 (67.1)</td><td align="left">713 (65.8)</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="6">Drinking status, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Current, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">1317 (16.0)</td><td align="left">1174 (16.5)</td><td align="left">1234 (16.2)</td><td align="left">429 (19.0)</td><td align="left">204 (18.8)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Former, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">1295 (15.7)</td><td align="left">1126 (15.8)</td><td align="left">1177 (15.4)</td><td align="left">379 (16.8)</td><td align="left">173 (16.0)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Never, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">5645 (68.4)</td><td align="left">4824 (67.7)</td><td align="left">5209 (68.4)</td><td align="left">1446 (64.2)</td><td align="left">706 (65.2)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Serum glucose, mmol/L</td><td align="left">6.1 &#x000b1;&#x02009;1.6</td><td align="left">6.2 &#x000b1;&#x02009;1.6</td><td align="left">6.1 &#x000b1;&#x02009;1.6</td><td align="left">6.2 &#x000b1;&#x02009;1.7</td><td align="left">6.1 &#x000b1;&#x02009;1.6</td></tr><tr><td align="left">TG, mmol/L</td><td align="left">1.6 &#x000b1;&#x02009;1.1</td><td align="left">1.6 &#x000b1;&#x02009;1.1</td><td align="left">1.6 &#x000b1;&#x02009;1.1</td><td align="left">1.7 &#x000b1;&#x02009;1.1</td><td align="left">1.7 &#x000b1;&#x02009;1.1</td></tr><tr><td align="left">LDL-C, mmol/L</td><td align="left">2.7 &#x000b1;&#x02009;0.9</td><td align="left">2.7 &#x000b1;&#x02009;0.9</td><td align="left">2.7 &#x000b1;&#x02009;0.9</td><td align="left">2.7 &#x000b1;&#x02009;0.9</td><td align="left">2.5 &#x000b1;&#x02009;0.9</td></tr><tr><td align="left">HDL-C mmol/L</td><td align="left">1.3 &#x000b1;&#x02009;0.3</td><td align="left">1.3 &#x000b1;&#x02009;0.3</td><td align="left">1.3 &#x000b1;&#x02009;0.3</td><td align="left">1.2 &#x000b1;&#x02009;0.3</td><td align="left">1.2 &#x000b1;&#x02009;0.3</td></tr><tr><td align="left">eGFR &#x0003c;&#x02009;60 ml/min/1.73 m<sup>2</sup>, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">141 (1.7)</td><td align="left">130 (1.8)</td><td align="left">131 (1.7)</td><td align="left">44 (2.0)</td><td align="left">25 (2.3)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">CVD history, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">528 (6.4)</td><td align="left">466 (6.5)</td><td align="left">473 (6.2)</td><td align="left">156 (6.9)</td><td align="left">139 (12.8)</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p><italic>Abbreviations&#x000a0;ARB</italic>&#x000a0;angiotensin II receptor blocker,&#x000a0;<italic>BMI</italic>&#x000a0;body mass index,&#x000a0;<italic>CCB</italic>&#x000a0;calcium channel blocker,&#x000a0;<italic>CVD</italic>&#x000a0;cardiovascular disease,&#x000a0;<italic>DBP</italic>&#x000a0;diastolic blood pressure,&#x000a0;<italic>eGFR</italic>&#x000a0;estimated glomerular filtration rate,&#x000a0;<italic>HDL-C</italic>&#x000a0;high-density lipoprotein cholesterol,&#x000a0;<italic>LDL-C</italic>&#x000a0;low-density lipoprotein cholesterol,&#x000a0;<italic>SBP</italic>&#x000a0;systolic blood pressure,&#x000a0;<italic>TG</italic>&#x000a0;triglyceride</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p><sec id="Sec8"><title>Primary outcome</title><p id="Par41">During a median follow-up of 3.34 years, 336 primary outcome events occurred. We analysed cardiovascular risk using the relative time for each drug class until the occurrence of the primary outcome (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref> and Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref>). After adjusting for potential confounders, multivariate Cox proportional hazard regression analyses indicated that a longer relative time to ARB and CCB treatment was associated with a significantly lower risk of the primary outcome. Each unit increase in the relative time of ARB corresponded to a 45% reduction in CVD risk (HR 0.55, 95% CI 0.43&#x02013;0.70), compared to a 30% reduction with CCBs use (HR 0.70, 95% CI 0.54&#x02013;0.92). The risk reduction associated with ARBs was significantly higher than that observed with CCBs (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>; <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c; 0.001). Moderate associations were observed between the relative duration of thiazide-type diuretic use and primary outcome. In contrast, each unit increase in the relative time on beta-blockers was associated with a higher risk of primary events (HR 2.20, 95% CI 1.81&#x02013;2.68). To further interpret the result and assess their applicability, we calculated the HR per 0.1 unit change in relative time (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref> and Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref>) and found that an increase of 0.1 unit in ARBs&#x02019; relative time was associated with a 6% reduction in the risk of primary outcome (HR 0.94, 95% CI 0.92&#x02013;0.96), whereas CCBs reduced the risk by only 3% (HR 0.97, 95% CI 0.94&#x02013;0.99). Additionally, each 0.1-unit increase in the relative time on beta-blockers was associated with an 8% increase in the risk of the primary outcome (HR 1.08, 95% CI 1.06&#x02013;1.10). A significant increase in cardiovascular risk associated with beta-blockers was also observed in the propensity score-matched analysis after controlling for several residual confounders (Additional file 1: Table S1).<fig id="Fig1"><label>Fig. 1</label><caption><p>Association of antihypertensive drug class exposure with primary composite outcome<sup>&#x02020;</sup> in the entire study population. The relative exposure time was calculated for each antihypertensive drug class. This variable represents the proportion of time a participant was exposed to a specific drug class relative to their total event or censoring time. The relative exposure time was subsequently included as a continuous independent variable in the Cox regression models. The figure presents HRs derived from these models, illustrating the impact of changes in the relative time on the risk of the primary composite outcome: left panel (HR per 1 unit): displays HRs associated with each 1-unit increase in the relative exposure time. A 1-unit increase in this variable signifies a transition from no exposure (relative time =&#x02009;0) to continuous exposure throughout the participant&#x02019;s entire follow-up period (relative time =&#x02009;1). Right panel (HR per 0.1 unit): displays HRs associated with each 0.1-unit increase in the relative exposure time. This represents the change in hazard for every 10% increase in the proportion of relative time which the participant was exposed to the drug class (e.g. an increase in relative exposure time from 0.5 to 0.6). The adjusted model accounted for the randomisation group, age, sex, baseline systolic blood pressure, cumulative systolic blood pressure, body mass index, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, glucose level, history of cardiovascular disease, and baseline renal dysfunction. *The <italic>P</italic> value was obtained by comparing the hazard ratios of ARBs and CCBs using a two-independent-samples <italic>t</italic>-test, based on bootstrapped estimates (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;= 100). <sup>&#x02020;</sup>Primary composite outcome includes the first occurrence of stroke (ischaemic or haemorrhagic), acute coronary syndrome (myocardial infarction and hospitalisation for unstable angina), acute decompensated heart failure, coronary revascularisation, atrial fibrillation, or death from cardiovascular causes. Abbreviations: ARB, angiotensin II receptor blocker; CCB, calcium channel blocker; CI, confidence interval; HR, hazard ratio</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4158_Fig1_HTML" id="MO1"/></fig><table-wrap id="Tab2"><label>Table 2</label><caption><p>Association of antihypertensive drug class exposure with primary composite outcome*</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left" rowspan="2">Relative time of antihypertensive drug class</th><th align="left" colspan="3">HR (95% CI) per 1 unit (received vs. not received)</th><th align="left" colspan="3">HR (95% CI) per 0.1 unit (received 10% longer time)</th></tr><tr><th align="left">Model 1</th><th align="left">Model 2</th><th align="left">Model 3</th><th align="left">Model 1</th><th align="left">Model 2</th><th align="left">Model 3</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">ARB</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">0.58 (0.46&#x02013;0.73)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">0.55 (0.43&#x02013;0.70)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">0.55 (0.43&#x02013;0.70)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">0.95 (0.93&#x02013;0.97)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">0.94 (0.92&#x02013;0.97)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">0.94 (0.92&#x02013;0.96)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">CCB</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">0.72 (0.55&#x02013;0.94)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">0.69 (0.52&#x02013;0.90)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">0.70 (0.54&#x02013;0.92)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">0.97 (0.94&#x02013;0.99)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">0.96 (0.94&#x02013;0.99)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">0.97 (0.94&#x02013;0.99)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Diuretic</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">1.06 (0.71&#x02013;1.58)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">1.03 (0.68&#x02013;1.58)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">1.02 (0.66&#x02013;1.56)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">1.01 (0.97&#x02013;1.05)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">1.00 (0.96&#x02013;1.05)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">1.00 (0.96&#x02013;1.05)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Beta-blocker</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">2.06 (1.73&#x02013;2.46)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">2.21 (1.84&#x02013;2.67)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">2.20 (1.81&#x02013;2.68)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">1.08 (1.06&#x02013;1.09)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">1.08 (1.06&#x02013;1.10)</td><td char="&#x02013;" align="char">1.08 (1.06&#x02013;1.10)</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>Model 1 was the crude model</p><p>Model 2 accounted for the randomisation group, age, sex, baseline systolic blood pressure, cumulative systolic blood pressure, body mass index, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and glucose level</p><p>Model 3 extended model 2 by additionally adjusting for the history of cardiovascular disease and baseline renal dysfunction</p><p><italic>Abbreviations</italic>&#x000a0;<italic>ARB</italic>&#x000a0;angiotensin II receptor blocker,&#x000a0;<italic>CCB</italic>&#x000a0;calcium channel blocker,&#x000a0;<italic>CI</italic>&#x000a0;confidence interval,&#x000a0;<italic>HR</italic>&#x000a0;hazard ratio</p><p><sup>*</sup>First occurrence of stroke (ischaemic or haemorrhagic), acute coronary syndrome (myocardial infarction and hospitalisation for unstable angina), acute decompensated heart failure, coronary revascularisation, atrial fibrillation, or death from cardiovascular causes</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p><p id="Par42">Sensitivity analyses demonstrated that the survival analyses remained robust after excluding participants with a history of CVD (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;= 528) or those with a baseline eGFR &#x0003c;&#x02009;60 ml/min/1.73 m<sup>2</sup> (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;= 141) (Additional file 1: Fig. S3 and Table S2). A reduced risk of the primary outcome was consistently observed in participants with a longer exposure to ARBs and CCBs, while the increased risk persisted in participants who used beta-blockers. The HRs associated with per 1 unit and per 0.1 unit increase in the relative time of ARB use remained significantly and consistently lower than those of CCB across models 1&#x02013;3 and sensitivity analyses (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref> and Additional file 1: Fig. S3, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c; 0.001).</p></sec><sec id="Sec9"><title>Secondary outcomes</title><p id="Par43">Secondary outcomes included 234 MACE, 129 all-cause mortalities, 42 cardiovascular mortalities, 116 strokes, 135 ACSs, 54 coronary revascularisations, 49 atrial fibrillations, and 13 heart failures. In separate analyses, longer relative exposure times to ARBs or CCBs were associated with a significantly lower risk of all-cause mortality and cardiovascular mortality (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref> and Additional file 1: Table S3). For all-cause mortality, each unit increase in the relative time on ARB treatment resulted in a 54% risk reduction (HR 0.46, 95% CI 0.31&#x02013;0.67), while CCB use led to a 51% risk reduction (HR 0.49, 95% CI 0.32&#x02013;0.75). However, this relationship was not observed for diuretics or beta-blockers. Additionally, each unit increase in the relative time on ARBs was associated with a 56% lower risk of stroke (HR 0.44, 95% CI 0.29&#x02013;0.66), a 41% lower risk of ACS (HR 0.59, 95% CI 0.41&#x02013;0.87), and a 39% lower risk of MACE (HR 0.61, 95% CI 0.46&#x02013;0.81), whereas these benefits were not observed with other types of drugs. Conversely, each unit increase in the relative time on beta-blocker treatment was associated with an increased risk of MACE (HR 2.31, 95% CI 1.82&#x02013;2.94), stroke (HR 2.04, 95% CI 1.42&#x02013;2.93), ACS (HR 2.28, 95% CI 1.70&#x02013;3.05), coronary revascularisation (HR 2.49, 95% CI 1.56&#x02013;3.96), and atrial fibrillation (HR 2.30, 95% CI 1.63&#x02013;3.25). The propensity score-matched analysis showed consistent results for MACE, stroke, and ACS (Additional file 1: Table S1). Furthermore, longer exposure to ARBs demonstrated more pronounced benefits in reducing the risks of MACE and stroke compared to CCBs (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>, all <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c; 0.05). A similar trend was observed when calculating the HR per 0.1 unit change in the relative time for different antihypertensive drug classes (Additional file 1: Fig. S4 and Table S3).<fig id="Fig2"><label>Fig. 2</label><caption><p>Association of antihypertensive drug class exposure with secondary outcomes demonstrating the hazard ratio per unit change of relative time. The adjusted model accounted for the randomisation group, age, sex, baseline systolic blood pressure, cumulative systolic blood pressure, body mass index, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, glucose level, history of cardiovascular disease, and baseline renal dysfunction. *The <italic>P</italic> value was obtained by comparing the hazard ratios of ARBs and CCBs using a two-independent-samples <italic>t</italic>-test, based on bootstrapped estimates (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;= 100). Abbreviations: ACS, acute coronary syndrome; ARB, angiotensin II receptor blocker; CCB, calcium channel blocker; CI, confidence interval; CV, cardiovascular; MACE, major adverse cardiac events</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4158_Fig2_HTML" id="MO2"/></fig></p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec10"><title>Discussion</title><p id="Par44">In this post hoc analysis of the STEP trial conducted among elderly patients with hypertension, our findings reveal that prolonged treatments with ARB and CCB are significantly associated with a lower risk of composite cardiac outcomes, all-cause mortality, and cardiovascular mortality. In addition, extended ARB exposure further reduces the risk of stroke, ACS, and MACE; these benefits are not observed with other types of antihypertensive drugs. Compared to CCBs, ARBs demonstrate more pronounced benefits in reducing the risk of various cardiovascular outcomes.</p><p id="Par45">Given these findings, ARBs may be preferable to CCBs in providing additional cardiovascular benefits in hypertensive patients with well-controlled blood pressure. Clinically, the favourable antihypertensive effects of ARBs in reducing cardiovascular events have been extensively documented [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR22">22</xref>]. Several recent studies have compared the long-term benefits of ARBs and CCBs, the two most commonly used antihypertensive drugs. However, the results have been contradictory. Some studies have reported neutral findings [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>], whereas some studies have indicated that renin-angiotensin system (RAS) inhibitors provide more favourable clinical outcomes than CCBs. A pooled meta-analysis revealed that RAS inhibitors resulted in a significant absolute reduction in heart failure-related deaths or hospitalisations compared with CCBs, suggesting that RAS inhibitors might be a better choice for first-line medications [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>]. Furthermore, a study investigating the outcomes in 7080 high-risk hypertensive patients using ARBs or CCBs with comparable blood pressure levels found that ARBs were associated with a significantly lower risk of heart failure and new-onset diabetes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>]. Another randomised controlled trial reported that the primary composite cardiac endpoints did not differ significantly between the ARB and CCB groups; however, ARB recipients had a 35% lower risk of congestive heart failure than participants receiving CCBs [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR26">26</xref>]. Our study further supports these findings and extends the existing evidence by demonstrating that ARBs provide remarkable benefits than CCBs across multiple cardiovascular outcomes.</p><p id="Par46">Except for ARBs and CCBs, our findings also revealed a strong correlation between prolonged beta-blocker exposure and cardiovascular events, including primary outcomes, MACE, stroke, and ACS, in both unmatched and propensity score-matched analyses. Although these associations may be influenced by selection bias due to medical indications, it could also be attributed to the less efficient and less stable blood pressure-lowering effects of beta-blockers as well as their inferior ability to reduce the risk of CVD events. A recent randomised controlled trial, the Randomised Evaluation of Decreased Usage of Beta-Blockers after Acute Myocardial Infarction (REDUCE-AMI), reported that long-term use of beta-blockers in patients with acute myocardial infarction and preserved left ventricular ejection fraction did not reduce all-cause mortality or the risk of recurrent myocardial infarction [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR27">27</xref>], raising concerns regarding the efficacy of beta-blockers [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR28">28</xref>]. Similarly, a previous study indicated that combining ARBs with beta-blockers provided little additional blood pressure reduction compared with ARB monotherapy [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR29">29</xref>]. Solanki et al. also reported that beta-blockers have a lower blood pressure-lowering effect than CCBs [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>]. Several studies have further demonstrated that beta-blockers are less effective compared to other antihypertensive drugs in reducing cardiovascular risk [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR31">31</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR33">33</xref>]. These findings underscore the need for further high-quality research to assess the cardiovascular outcomes of different beta-blocker subtypes compared with other antihypertensive medications.</p><p id="Par47">A notable strength of the present study is its examination of various antihypertensive drug classes and their impact on future CVD events in a real-world clinical trial that enrolled participants with well-controlled blood pressure. Additionally, in the present study, the HR estimates derived from the &#x02018;per 1 unit&#x02019; and &#x02018;per 0.1 unit&#x02019; increase in relative time offer complementary perspectives. The &#x02018;HR per 1 unit&#x02019; provides an estimate of the overall potential impact of sustained drug exposure relative to non-exposure over the observed period. The magnitude of these HRs reflects a larger effect size because it encompasses the entire spectrum from no use to full use. In contrast, the &#x02018;HR per 0.1 unit&#x02019; quantifies the effect of a 10% increase in proportional exposure duration. These HRs are naturally smaller as they represent a smaller change in relative exposure duration. Critically, the direction of the associations (protective for ARBs/CCBs, negative for beta-blockers, and neutral for diuretics) remained consistent across both analytical approaches. This consistency strengthens the confidence in our findings. The current results allow for a more nuanced interpretation: not only is sustained use of ARBs and CCBs beneficial, but longer proportional duration of use appears to contribute incremental benefit.</p><p id="Par48">However, this study has certain limitations. First, it is important to acknowledge that this study is a post hoc analysis of the STEP trial, which was not prespecified designed to compare the effects of different antihypertensive drug classes. Thus, the observed associations could not establish causality. Prespecified designed randomised controlled trials might further verify these associations. To mitigate potential bias, adjustments were made for the randomisation group, baseline SBP, and cumulative SBP values. Additionally, variations in survival among participants were accounted for by utilising relative time, which considered the occurrence of events and helped avoid biases associated with these differences. Second, the higher event rates observed in patients receiving beta-blockers for a longer duration may be due to selection bias. Beta-blockers are often prescribed to patients with known CVDs, suspected ischaemic heart disease, paroxysmal or permanent tachycardia, or reduced or suspected reduced left ventricular ejection fraction, as well as to patients in need of more than two antihypertensive drugs. Efforts were made to reduce this bias and validate the results by excluding patients with previous CVD history or reduced eGFR in the sensitivity analysis, as well as to incorporate propensity score-matched analyses. Third, the STEP trial exclusively included Chinese participants, which may have limited the ethnic diversity and generalisability of the findings. For example, previous evidence suggests that CCBs may produce better outcomes in African and other heterogeneous populations [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR34">34</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR36">36</xref>]. Conversely, RAS inhibitors have been found to be more effective in Asian populations [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR37">37</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR38">38</xref>]. Given that a head-to-head study has reported comparable efficacy between ARBs and ACEIs [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR39">39</xref>], and considering factors such as adherence, antihypertensive efficacy, and cardiovascular benefits, ARBs may be more suitable for Asian populations [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR40">40</xref>], particularly for those who experience dry cough associated with ACEIs [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR41">41</xref>]. Therefore, regional and ethnic differences should be considered when interpreting the effects of antihypertensive medications. Further research is required to validate these findings in the general population. More well-designed studies are also warranted to provide deeper insight into the comparative effectiveness of different antihypertensive drug classes across diverse patient populations.</p></sec><sec id="Sec11"><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par49">The findings from this post hoc analysis suggested that longer treatments with ARBs and CCBs might be associated with a more favourable long-term prognosis for multiple cardiovascular events in elderly patients with hypertension than diuretics and beta-blockers. Specifically, prolonged exposure to ARBs appeared to be correlated with a lower incidence of composite cardiac outcomes, MACE, and stroke when compared to CCBs. In contrast, while longer beta-blocker use was observed to be associated with an increased risk of various CVD events, this finding could potentially be influenced by selection bias based on medical indications.</p></sec><sec id="Sec12" sec-type="supplementary-material"><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>
<supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM1"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4158_MOESM1_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Additional file 1: Tables S1&#x02013;S3 and Figures S1&#x02013;S4. Table S1 Comparative effectiveness of beta-blocker exposure duration on primary and secondary outcomes: a propensity score-matched analysis. Table S2 Sensitivity analyses evaluating the association of antihypertensive drug class exposure with the primary composite outcome. Table S3 Association of antihypertensive drug class exposure with secondary outcomes. Fig. S1 Study flowchart representing participant involvement. Fig. S2 Antihypertensive drug class use at baseline and follow-up study visits. Fig. S3 Sensitivity analyses for the association of antihypertensive drug class exposure with the primary composite outcome. Fig. S4 Association of antihypertensive drug class exposure with secondary outcomes (hazard ratio per 0.1 unit change of relative time).</p></caption></media></supplementary-material></p></sec></body><back><glossary><title>Abbreviations</title><def-list><def-item><term>ACEI</term><def><p id="Par16">Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ACS</term><def><p id="Par17">Acute coronary syndrome</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>AMI</term><def><p id="Par18">Acute myocardial infarction</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ARB</term><def><p id="Par19">Angiotensin II receptor blocker</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CCB</term><def><p id="Par20">Calcium channel blocker</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CI</term><def><p id="Par21">Confidence interval</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CVD</term><def><p id="Par22">Cardiovascular disease</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>eGFR</term><def><p id="Par23">Estimated glomerular filtration rate</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>HR</term><def><p id="Par24">Hazard ratio</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MACE</term><def><p id="Par25">Major adverse cardiac events</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>RAS</term><def><p id="Par26">Renin-angiotensin system</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>REDUCE-AMI</term><def><p id="Par27">Randomised Evaluation of Decreased Usage of Beta-Blockers after Acute Myocardial Infarction</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>SBP</term><def><p id="Par28">Systolic blood pressure</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>SPRINT</term><def><p id="Par29">Systolic Blood Pressure Intervention Trial</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>STEP</term><def><p id="Par30">Strategy of Blood Pressure Intervention in Elderly Hypertensive Patients</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>&#x003c7;<sup>2</sup></term><def><p id="Par31">Chi-square test</p></def></def-item></def-list></glossary><fn-group><fn><p><bold>Publisher&#x02019;s Note</bold></p><p>Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.</p></fn><fn><p>Xinyi Peng, Michael Hecht Olsen and Manan Pareek contributed equally to this work.</p></fn></fn-group><ack><title>Acknowledgements
</title><p>The authors thank all the staff members of the STEP team for their contribution. We acknowledge the support of the Emerging Authors Program for Global Cardiovascular Disease Research, a mentorship collaboration consisting of the Lancet Commission on Hypertension Group, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Resolve to Save Lives (RTSL), the World Hypertension League, and the CDC Foundation. This initiative receives support from Bloomberg Philanthropies and RTSL through a grant to the National Foundation for the CDC Foundation. We would like to thank Editage (<ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="http://www.editage.cn">www.editage.cn</ext-link>) for English language editing.</p></ack><notes notes-type="author-contribution"><title>Authors&#x02019;&#x000a0;contribution
</title><p>Conceptualization: J.C., Q.S.; Formal analysis: X.P., Q.S., M.H.O., M.P., J.B., Y.L.; Software: X.P., J.B.; Writing-original draft: X.P., Q.S.; Writing-review &#x00026; editing: J.C., M.H.O., Manan Pareek, Q.S., X.P.; Supervision: J.C., Q.S.; Resources: J.C., Q.S..All authors read and approved the manuscript.</p></notes><notes notes-type="funding-information"><title>Funding</title><p>This work was supported by CAMS Innovation Fund for Medical Sciences (CIFMS, 2021-I2M-1&#x02013;007), National High Level Hospital Clinical Research Funding (2022-GSP-GG-5, 2022-GSP-PT-12), National Natural Science Foundation of China (Project ID, 81825002, 82330013), Beijing Outstanding Young Scientist Program (Project ID, BJJWZYJH01201910023029), Key project of Science and Technology Innovation Project of China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences (Project ID, CI2021 A00920), Beijing Municipal Science &#x00026; Technology Commission (Project ID, Z231100004623009, Z241100009024041), Beijing Research Ward Excellence Program, BRWEP (Project ID, BRWEP2024 W012060100), Beijing Natural Science Foundation (Project ID, L248105), Beijing Hospitals Authority Clinical medicine Development of special funding support (code, ZLRK202511), China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (2023M740322), and Postdoctoral Fellowship Program of CPSF (GZC20240148).</p></notes><notes notes-type="data-availability"><title>Data availability
</title><p>Data are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request and with permission of the corresponding author.</p></notes><notes><title>Declarations</title><notes id="FPar1"><title>Ethics approval and consent to participate</title><p id="Par50">The study was approved by the Ethics Committee of Fuwai Hospital (approval number: 2016&#x02013;838) and all collaborating centres and was conducted in accordance with the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki. All the participants provided written informed consent.</p></notes><notes id="FPar2"><title>Consent for publication</title><p id="Par51">Not applicable.</p></notes><notes id="FPar3" notes-type="COI-statement"><title>Competing interests
</title><p id="Par52">Prof. Manan Pareek has served on advisory boards for AstraZeneca, Janssen-Cilag, and Novo Nordisk. He has received grant support from the Danish Cardiovascular Academy, funded by the Novo Nordisk Foundation and the Danish Heart Foundation (grant number: CPD5Y-2022004-HF). Additionally, he has received speaker honoraria from AstraZeneca, Bayer, Boehringer Ingelheim, and Janssen-Cilag. Prof. Michael Hecht Olsen has received speaker honoraria from Novo Nordisk A/S, Teva A/S, and AstraZeneca A/S. Additionally, Prof. Olsen has been the recipient of research grants from the Danish Heart Foundation and the Novo Nordisk Foundation.</p></notes></notes><ref-list id="Bib1"><title>References</title><ref id="CR1"><label>1.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">NCD Risk Factor Collaboration (NCD-RisC). Worldwide trends in blood pressure from 1975 to 2015: a pooled analysis of 1479 population-based measurement studies with 19&#x000b7;1 million participants. Lancet. 2017;389(10064):37&#x02013;55.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR2"><label>2.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR2" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ogunniyi</surname><given-names>MO</given-names></name><name><surname>Commodore-Mensah</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Ferdinand</surname><given-names>KC</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Race, ethnicity, hypertension, and heart disease: JACC focus seminar 1/9</article-title><source>J Am Coll Cardiol</source><year>2021</year><volume>78</volume><issue>24</issue><fpage>2460</fpage><lpage>2470</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.jacc.2021.06.017</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 34886968?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34886968</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR2" publication-type="journal">Ogunniyi MO, Commodore-Mensah Y, Ferdinand KC. Race, ethnicity, hypertension, and heart disease: JACC focus seminar 1/9. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2021;78(24):2460&#x02013;70.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34886968</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR3"><label>3.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR3" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Thomopoulos</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Parati</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Zanchetti</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Effects of blood pressure lowering on outcome incidence in hypertension: 4. Effects of various classes of antihypertensive drugs&#x02013;overview and meta-analyses</article-title><source>J Hypertens.</source><year>2015</year><volume>33</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>195</fpage><lpage>211</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1097/HJH.0000000000000447</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 25485720?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25485720</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR3" publication-type="journal">Thomopoulos C, Parati G, Zanchetti A. Effects of blood pressure lowering on outcome incidence in hypertension: 4. Effects of various classes of antihypertensive drugs&#x02013;overview and meta-analyses. J Hypertens. 2015;33(2):195&#x02013;211.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25485720</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR4"><label>4.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR4" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Turnbull</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Effects of different blood-pressure-lowering regimens on major cardiovascular events: results of prospectively-designed overviews of randomised trials</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2003</year><volume>362</volume><issue>9395</issue><fpage>1527</fpage><lpage>1535</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/S0140-6736(03)14739-3</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 14615107?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">14615107</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR4" publication-type="journal">Turnbull F. Effects of different blood-pressure-lowering regimens on major cardiovascular events: results of prospectively-designed overviews of randomised trials. Lancet. 2003;362(9395):1527&#x02013;35.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">14615107</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR5"><label>5.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR5" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Reboussin</surname><given-names>DM</given-names></name><name><surname>Allen</surname><given-names>NB</given-names></name><name><surname>Griswold</surname><given-names>ME</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Systematic review for the 2017 ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA guideline for the prevention, detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines</article-title><source>Circulation</source><year>2018</year><volume>138</volume><issue>17</issue><fpage>e595</fpage><lpage>e616</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1161/CIR.0000000000000601</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 30354656?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30354656</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR5" publication-type="journal">Reboussin DM, Allen NB, Griswold ME, et al. Systematic review for the 2017 ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA guideline for the prevention, detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2018;138(17):e595&#x02013;616.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30354656</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR6"><label>6.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR6" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Fretheim</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Odgaard-Jensen</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Br&#x000f8;rs</surname><given-names>O</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Comparative effectiveness of antihypertensive medication for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease: systematic review and multiple treatments meta-analysis</article-title><source>BMC Med</source><year>2012</year><volume>10</volume><fpage>33</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/1741-7015-10-33</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 22480336?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22480336</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR6" publication-type="journal">Fretheim A, Odgaard-Jensen J, Br&#x000f8;rs O, et al. Comparative effectiveness of antihypertensive medication for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease: systematic review and multiple treatments meta-analysis. BMC Med. 2012;10:33.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22480336</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR7"><label>7.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR7" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Thomopoulos</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Parati</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Zanchetti</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Effects of blood pressure-lowering on outcome incidence in hypertension: 5. Head-to-head comparisons of various classes of antihypertensive drugs - overview and meta-analyses</article-title><source>J Hypertens.</source><year>2015</year><volume>33</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>1321</fpage><lpage>1341</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1097/HJH.0000000000000614</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 26039526?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26039526</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR7" publication-type="journal">Thomopoulos C, Parati G, Zanchetti A. Effects of blood pressure-lowering on outcome incidence in hypertension: 5. Head-to-head comparisons of various classes of antihypertensive drugs - overview and meta-analyses. J Hypertens. 2015;33(7):1321&#x02013;41.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26039526</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR8"><label>8.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR8" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zhu</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhou</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Calcium channel blockers versus other classes of drugs for hypertension</article-title><source>Cochrane Database Syst Rev.</source><year>2022</year><volume>1</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>CD3654</fpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR8" publication-type="journal">Zhu J, Chen N, Zhou M, et al. Calcium channel blockers versus other classes of drugs for hypertension. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2022;1(1):CD3654.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR9"><label>9.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR9" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>YJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>LJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Tang</surname><given-names>WL</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>First-line drugs inhibiting the renin angiotensin system versus other first-line antihypertensive drug classes for hypertension</article-title><source>Cochrane Database Syst Rev.</source><year>2018</year><volume>11</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>CD8170</fpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR9" publication-type="journal">Chen YJ, Li LJ, Tang WL, et al. First-line drugs inhibiting the renin angiotensin system versus other first-line antihypertensive drug classes for hypertension. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2018;11(11):CD8170.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR10"><label>10.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR10" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ettehad</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Emdin</surname><given-names>CA</given-names></name><name><surname>Kiran</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Blood pressure lowering for prevention of cardiovascular disease and death: a systematic review and meta-analysis</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2016</year><volume>387</volume><issue>10022</issue><fpage>957</fpage><lpage>967</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/S0140-6736(15)01225-8</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 26724178?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26724178</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR10" publication-type="journal">Ettehad D, Emdin CA, Kiran A, et al. Blood pressure lowering for prevention of cardiovascular disease and death: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Lancet. 2016;387(10022):957&#x02013;67.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26724178</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR11"><label>11.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR11" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Thomopoulos</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Parati</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Zanchetti</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Effects of blood pressure-lowering treatment on cardiovascular outcomes and mortality: 14 - effects of different classes of antihypertensive drugs in older and younger patients: overview and meta-analysis</article-title><source>J Hypertens</source><year>2018</year><volume>36</volume><issue>8</issue><fpage>1637</fpage><lpage>1647</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1097/HJH.0000000000001777</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 29847487?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29847487</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR11" publication-type="journal">Thomopoulos C, Parati G, Zanchetti A. Effects of blood pressure-lowering treatment on cardiovascular outcomes and mortality: 14 - effects of different classes of antihypertensive drugs in older and younger patients: overview and meta-analysis. J Hypertens. 2018;36(8):1637&#x02013;47.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29847487</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR12"><label>12.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR12" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>DeCarolis</surname><given-names>DD</given-names></name><name><surname>Gravely</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Olney</surname><given-names>CM</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Impact of antihypertensive drug class on outcomes in SPRINT</article-title><source>Hypertension</source><year>2022</year><volume>79</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>1112</fpage><lpage>1121</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.121.18369</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 35259925?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35259925</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR12" publication-type="journal">DeCarolis DD, Gravely A, Olney CM, et al. Impact of antihypertensive drug class on outcomes in SPRINT. Hypertension. 2022;79(5):1112&#x02013;21.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35259925</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR13"><label>13.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR13" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Whelton</surname><given-names>PK</given-names></name><name><surname>Carey</surname><given-names>RM</given-names></name><name><surname>Aronow</surname><given-names>WS</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>2017 ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA guideline for the prevention, detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines</article-title><source>Hypertension</source><year>2018</year><volume>71</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>e13</fpage><lpage>e115</lpage><?supplied-pmid 29133356?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29133356</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR13" publication-type="journal">Whelton PK, Carey RM, Aronow WS, et al. 2017 ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA guideline for the prevention, detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Hypertension. 2018;71(6):e13&#x02013;115.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29133356</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR14"><label>14.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR14" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Mancia</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Kreutz</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Brunstr&#x000f6;m</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>2023 ESH guidelines for the management of arterial hypertension. The task force for the management of arterial hypertension of the European Society of Hypertension: endorsed by the International Society of Hypertension (ISH) and the European Renal Association (ERA)</article-title><source>J Hypertens</source><year>2023</year><volume>41</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>1874</fpage><lpage>2071</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1097/HJH.0000000000003480</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 37345492?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37345492</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR14" publication-type="journal">Mancia G, Kreutz R, Brunstr&#x000f6;m M, et al. 2023 ESH guidelines for the management of arterial hypertension. The task force for the management of arterial hypertension of the European Society of Hypertension: endorsed by the International Society of Hypertension (ISH) and the European Renal Association (ERA). J Hypertens. 2023;41(12):1874&#x02013;2071.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37345492</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR15"><label>15.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR15" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Jones</surname><given-names>NR</given-names></name><name><surname>McCormack</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Constanti</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Diagnosis and management of hypertension in adults: NICE guideline update 2019</article-title><source>Br J Gen Pract</source><year>2020</year><volume>70</volume><issue>691</issue><fpage>90</fpage><lpage>91</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.3399/bjgp20X708053</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 32001477?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32001477</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR15" publication-type="journal">Jones NR, McCormack T, Constanti M, et al. Diagnosis and management of hypertension in adults: NICE guideline update 2019. Br J Gen Pract. 2020;70(691):90&#x02013;1.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32001477</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR16"><label>16.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR16" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Ren</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Strategy of blood pressure intervention in the elderly hypertensive patients (STEP): rational, design, and baseline characteristics for the main trial</article-title><source>Contemp Clin Trials</source><year>2020</year><volume>89</volume><fpage>105913</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.cct.2019.105913</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 31838255?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31838255</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR16" publication-type="journal">Zhang S, Wu S, Ren J, et al. Strategy of blood pressure intervention in the elderly hypertensive patients (STEP): rational, design, and baseline characteristics for the main trial. Contemp Clin Trials. 2020;89.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31838255</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR17"><label>17.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR17" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Deng</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Trial of intensive blood-pressure control in older patients with hypertension</article-title><source>N Engl J Med</source><year>2021</year><volume>385</volume><issue>14</issue><fpage>1268</fpage><lpage>1279</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1056/NEJMoa2111437</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 34491661?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34491661</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR17" publication-type="journal">Zhang W, Zhang S, Deng Y, et al. Trial of intensive blood-pressure control in older patients with hypertension. N Engl J Med. 2021;385(14):1268&#x02013;79.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34491661</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR18"><label>18.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR18" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ma</surname><given-names>YC</given-names></name><name><surname>Zuo</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>JH</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Modified glomerular filtration rate estimating equation for Chinese patients with chronic kidney disease</article-title><source>J Am Soc Nephrol</source><year>2006</year><volume>17</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>2937</fpage><lpage>2944</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1681/ASN.2006040368</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 16988059?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">16988059</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR18" publication-type="journal">Ma YC, Zuo L, Chen JH, et al. Modified glomerular filtration rate estimating equation for Chinese patients with chronic kidney disease. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2006;17(10):2937&#x02013;44.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">16988059</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR19"><label>19.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR19" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Juonala</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Jacobs</surname><given-names>DJ</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Childhood non-HDL cholesterol and LDL cholesterol and adult atherosclerotic cardiovascular events</article-title><source>Circulation</source><year>2024</year><volume>149</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>217</fpage><lpage>226</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.123.064296</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 38014550?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38014550</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR19" publication-type="journal">Wu F, Juonala M, Jacobs DJ, et al. Childhood non-HDL cholesterol and LDL cholesterol and adult atherosclerotic cardiovascular events. Circulation. 2024;149(3):217&#x02013;26.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38014550</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR20"><label>20.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR20" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Yusuf</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Teo</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Anderson</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Effects of the angiotensin-receptor blocker telmisartan on cardiovascular events in high-risk patients intolerant to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: a randomised controlled trial</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2008</year><volume>372</volume><issue>9644</issue><fpage>1174</fpage><lpage>1183</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61242-8</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 18757085?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18757085</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR20" publication-type="journal">Yusuf S, Teo K, Anderson C, et al. Effects of the angiotensin-receptor blocker telmisartan on cardiovascular events in high-risk patients intolerant to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: a randomised controlled trial. Lancet. 2008;372(9644):1174&#x02013;83.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18757085</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR21"><label>21.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR21" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Yusuf</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Diener</surname><given-names>HC</given-names></name><name><surname>Sacco</surname><given-names>RL</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Telmisartan to prevent recurrent stroke and cardiovascular events</article-title><source>N Engl J Med</source><year>2008</year><volume>359</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>1225</fpage><lpage>1237</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1056/NEJMoa0804593</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 18753639?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18753639</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR21" publication-type="journal">Yusuf S, Diener HC, Sacco RL, et al. Telmisartan to prevent recurrent stroke and cardiovascular events. N Engl J Med. 2008;359(12):1225&#x02013;37.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18753639</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR22"><label>22.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR22" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Brenner</surname><given-names>BM</given-names></name><name><surname>Cooper</surname><given-names>ME</given-names></name><name><surname>de Zeeuw</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Effects of losartan on renal and cardiovascular outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes and nephropathy</article-title><source>N Engl J Med</source><year>2001</year><volume>345</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>861</fpage><lpage>869</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1056/NEJMoa011161</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 11565518?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">11565518</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR22" publication-type="journal">Brenner BM, Cooper ME, de Zeeuw D, et al. Effects of losartan on renal and cardiovascular outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes and nephropathy. N Engl J Med. 2001;345(12):861&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">11565518</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR23"><label>23.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR23" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Julius</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Kjeldsen</surname><given-names>SE</given-names></name><name><surname>Weber</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Outcomes in hypertensive patients at high cardiovascular risk treated with regimens based on valsartan or amlodipine: the VALUE randomised trial</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2004</year><volume>363</volume><issue>9426</issue><fpage>2022</fpage><lpage>2031</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/S0140-6736(04)16451-9</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 15207952?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15207952</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR23" publication-type="journal">Julius S, Kjeldsen SE, Weber M, et al. Outcomes in hypertensive patients at high cardiovascular risk treated with regimens based on valsartan or amlodipine: the VALUE randomised trial. Lancet. 2004;363(9426):2022&#x02013;31.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15207952</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR24"><label>24.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">ALLHAT Officers and Coordinators for the ALLHAT Collaborative Research Group. The Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial. Major outcomes in high-risk hypertensive patients randomized to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor or calcium channel blocker vs diuretic: the Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT). JAMA. 2002;288(23):2981&#x02013;97.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR25"><label>25.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR25" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Julius</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Weber</surname><given-names>MA</given-names></name><name><surname>Kjeldsen</surname><given-names>SE</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The Valsartan Antihypertensive Long-Term Use Evaluation (VALUE) trial: outcomes in patients receiving monotherapy</article-title><source>Hypertension</source><year>2006</year><volume>48</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>385</fpage><lpage>391</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1161/01.HYP.0000236119.96301.f2</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 16864741?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">16864741</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR25" publication-type="journal">Julius S, Weber MA, Kjeldsen SE, et al. The Valsartan Antihypertensive Long-Term Use Evaluation (VALUE) trial: outcomes in patients receiving monotherapy. Hypertension. 2006;48(3):385&#x02013;91.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">16864741</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR26"><label>26.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR26" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Berl</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Hunsicker</surname><given-names>LG</given-names></name><name><surname>Lewis</surname><given-names>JB</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Cardiovascular outcomes in the Irbesartan Diabetic Nephropathy Trial of patients with type 2 diabetes and overt nephropathy</article-title><source>Ann Intern Med</source><year>2003</year><volume>138</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>542</fpage><lpage>549</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.7326/0003-4819-138-7-200304010-00010</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 12667024?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">12667024</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR26" publication-type="journal">Berl T, Hunsicker LG, Lewis JB, et al. Cardiovascular outcomes in the Irbesartan Diabetic Nephropathy Trial of patients with type 2 diabetes and overt nephropathy. Ann Intern Med. 2003;138(7):542&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">12667024</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR27"><label>27.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR27" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Yndigegn</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Lindahl</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Mars</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Beta-blockers after myocardial infarction and preserved ejection fraction</article-title><source>N Engl J Med</source><year>2024</year><volume>390</volume><issue>15</issue><fpage>1372</fpage><lpage>1381</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1056/NEJMoa2401479</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 38587241?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38587241</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR27" publication-type="journal">Yndigegn T, Lindahl B, Mars K, et al. Beta-blockers after myocardial infarction and preserved ejection fraction. N Engl J Med. 2024;390(15):1372&#x02013;81.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38587241</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR28"><label>28.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR28" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Steg</surname><given-names>PG</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Routine beta-blockers in secondary prevention - on injured reserve</article-title><source>N Engl J Med</source><year>2024</year><volume>390</volume><issue>15</issue><fpage>1434</fpage><lpage>1436</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1056/NEJMe2402731</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 38587255?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38587255</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR28" publication-type="journal">Steg PG. Routine beta-blockers in secondary prevention - on injured reserve. N Engl J Med. 2024;390(15):1434&#x02013;6.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38587255</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR29"><label>29.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR29" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Farag</surname><given-names>SM</given-names></name><name><surname>Rabea</surname><given-names>HM</given-names></name><name><surname>Abdelrahim</surname><given-names>ME</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Target blood pressure and combination therapy: focus on angiotensin receptor blockers combination with either calcium channel blockers or beta blockers</article-title><source>Curr Hypertens Rev</source><year>2022</year><volume>18</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>138</fpage><lpage>144</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.2174/1573402118666220627120254</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 36508272?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36508272</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR29" publication-type="journal">Farag SM, Rabea HM, Abdelrahim ME, et al. Target blood pressure and combination therapy: focus on angiotensin receptor blockers combination with either calcium channel blockers or beta blockers. Curr Hypertens Rev. 2022;18(2):138&#x02013;44.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36508272</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR30"><label>30.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR30" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Solanki</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Pandit</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Desai</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Effectiveness and safety assessment of beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers, and angiotensin receptor blockers in hypertensive patients: a prospective study</article-title><source>Am J Cardiovasc Dis</source><year>2021</year><volume>11</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>601</fpage><lpage>610</lpage><?supplied-pmid 34849291?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34849291</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR30" publication-type="journal">Solanki N, Pandit D, Desai S. Effectiveness and safety assessment of beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers, and angiotensin receptor blockers in hypertensive patients: a prospective study. Am J Cardiovasc Dis. 2021;11(5):601&#x02013;10.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34849291</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR31"><label>31.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR31" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Argulian</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Bangalore</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Messerli</surname><given-names>FH</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Misconceptions and facts about beta-blockers</article-title><source>Am J Med</source><year>2019</year><volume>132</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>816</fpage><lpage>819</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.amjmed.2019.01.039</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 30817899?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30817899</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR31" publication-type="journal">Argulian E, Bangalore S, Messerli FH. Misconceptions and facts about beta-blockers. Am J Med. 2019;132(7):816&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30817899</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR32"><label>32.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR32" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wiysonge</surname><given-names>CS</given-names></name><name><surname>Bradley</surname><given-names>HA</given-names></name><name><surname>Volmink</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Beta-blockers for hypertension</article-title><source>Cochrane Database Syst Rev</source><year>2017</year><volume>1</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>CD2003</fpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR32" publication-type="journal">Wiysonge CS, Bradley HA, Volmink J, et al. Beta-blockers for hypertension. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2017;1(1):CD2003.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR33"><label>33.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR33" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lindholm</surname><given-names>LH</given-names></name><name><surname>Carlberg</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Samuelsson</surname><given-names>O</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Should beta blockers remain first choice in the treatment of primary hypertension? A meta-analysis</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2005</year><volume>366</volume><issue>9496</issue><fpage>1545</fpage><lpage>1553</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/S0140-6736(05)67573-3</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 16257341?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">16257341</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR33" publication-type="journal">Lindholm LH, Carlberg B, Samuelsson O. Should beta blockers remain first choice in the treatment of primary hypertension? A meta-analysis. Lancet. 2005;366(9496):1545&#x02013;53.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">16257341</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR34"><label>34.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR34" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Park</surname><given-names>IU</given-names></name><name><surname>Taylor</surname><given-names>AL</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Race and ethnicity in trials of antihypertensive therapy to prevent cardiovascular outcomes: a systematic review</article-title><source>Ann Fam Med</source><year>2007</year><volume>5</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>444</fpage><lpage>452</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1370/afm.708</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 17893387?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17893387</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR34" publication-type="journal">Park IU, Taylor AL. Race and ethnicity in trials of antihypertensive therapy to prevent cardiovascular outcomes: a systematic review. Ann Fam Med. 2007;5(5):444&#x02013;52.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17893387</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR35"><label>35.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR35" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Brewster</surname><given-names>LM</given-names></name><name><surname>van Montfrans</surname><given-names>GA</given-names></name><name><surname>Oehlers</surname><given-names>GP</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Systematic review: antihypertensive drug therapy in patients of African and South Asian ethnicity</article-title><source>Intern Emerg Med</source><year>2016</year><volume>11</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>355</fpage><lpage>374</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1007/s11739-016-1422-x</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 27026378?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27026378</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR35" publication-type="journal">Brewster LM, van Montfrans GA, Oehlers GP, et al. Systematic review: antihypertensive drug therapy in patients of African and South Asian ethnicity. Intern Emerg Med. 2016;11(3):355&#x02013;74.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27026378</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR36"><label>36.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR36" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Palla</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Ando</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Androulakis</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Renin-angiotensin system inhibitors vs other antihypertensives in hypertensive blacks: a meta-analysis</article-title><source>J Clin Hypertens (Greenwich)</source><year>2017</year><volume>19</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>344</fpage><lpage>350</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1111/jch.12867</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 27378313?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27378313</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR36" publication-type="journal">Palla M, Ando T, Androulakis E, et al. Renin-angiotensin system inhibitors vs other antihypertensives in hypertensive blacks: a meta-analysis. J Clin Hypertens (Greenwich). 2017;19(4):344&#x02013;50.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27378313</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR37"><label>37.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR37" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Rahman</surname><given-names>ARA</given-names></name><name><surname>Magno</surname><given-names>JDA</given-names></name><name><surname>Cai</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Management of hypertension in the Asia-Pacific region: a structured review</article-title><source>Am J Cardiovasc Drugs</source><year>2024</year><volume>24</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>141</fpage><lpage>170</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1007/s40256-023-00625-1</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 38332411?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38332411</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR37" publication-type="journal">Rahman ARA, Magno JDA, Cai J, et al. Management of hypertension in the Asia-Pacific region: a structured review. Am J Cardiovasc Drugs. 2024;24(2):141&#x02013;70.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38332411</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR38"><label>38.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR38" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ke</surname><given-names>CH</given-names></name><name><surname>Morgan</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Smolina</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Is cardiovascular risk reduction therapy effective in South Asian, Chinese and other patients with diabetes? A population-based cohort study from Canada</article-title><source>BMJ Open</source><year>2017</year><volume>7</volume><issue>8</issue><fpage>e13808</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1136/bmjopen-2016-013808</pub-id></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR38" publication-type="journal">Ke CH, Morgan S, Smolina K, et al. Is cardiovascular risk reduction therapy effective in South Asian, Chinese and other patients with diabetes? A population-based cohort study from Canada. BMJ Open. 2017;7(8).</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR39"><label>39.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR39" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Messerli</surname><given-names>FH</given-names></name><name><surname>Bangalore</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Angiotensin receptor blockers reduce cardiovascular events, including the risk of myocardial infarction</article-title><source>Circulation</source><year>2017</year><volume>135</volume><issue>22</issue><fpage>2085</fpage><lpage>2087</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.116.025950</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 28559492?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28559492</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR39" publication-type="journal">Messerli FH, Bangalore S. Angiotensin receptor blockers reduce cardiovascular events, including the risk of myocardial infarction. Circulation. 2017;135(22):2085&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28559492</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR40"><label>40.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR40" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Messerli</surname><given-names>FH</given-names></name><name><surname>Bavishi</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Bangalore</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Why are we still prescribing angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors?</article-title><source>Circulation</source><year>2022</year><volume>145</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>413</fpage><lpage>415</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.121.057835</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 35130055?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35130055</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR40" publication-type="journal">Messerli FH, Bavishi C, Bangalore S. Why are we still prescribing angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors? Circulation. 2022;145(6):413&#x02013;5.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35130055</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR41"><label>41.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR41" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Tseng</surname><given-names>DS</given-names></name><name><surname>Kwong</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Rezvani</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Angiotensin-converting enzyme-related cough among Chinese-Americans</article-title><source>Am J Med</source><year>2010</year><volume>123</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>111</fpage><lpage>183</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.amjmed.2009.06.032</pub-id><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20103016</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR41" publication-type="journal">Tseng DS, Kwong J, Rezvani F, et al. Angiotensin-converting enzyme-related cough among Chinese-Americans. Am J Med. 2010;123(2):111&#x02013;83.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20103016</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref></ref-list></back></article>