# Trajectory of the body weight after drug discontinuation in the treatment of anti-obesity medications.

<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//NLM//DTD JATS (Z39.96) Journal Archiving and Interchange DTD with MathML3 v1.3 20210610//EN" "JATS-archivearticle1-3-mathml3.dtd"> 
<article xmlns:ali="http://www.niso.org/schemas/ali/1.0/" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" article-type="review-article" dtd-version="1.3"><?properties open_access?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierValue -//Springer-Verlag//DTD A++ V2.4//EN?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierType public?><?SourceDTD.DTDName A++V2.4.dtd?><?SourceDTD.Version 2.4?><?ConverterInfo.XSLTName springer2nlmx2.xsl?><?ConverterInfo.Version 1?><processing-meta base-tagset="archiving" mathml-version="3.0" table-model="xhtml" tagset-family="jats"><restricted-by>pmc</restricted-by></processing-meta><front><journal-meta><journal-id journal-id-type="nlm-ta">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-id journal-id-type="iso-abbrev">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-title-group><journal-title>BMC Medicine</journal-title></journal-title-group><issn pub-type="epub">1741-7015</issn><publisher><publisher-name>BioMed Central</publisher-name><publisher-loc>London</publisher-loc></publisher></journal-meta>
<article-meta><article-id pub-id-type="pmcid">12281790</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="pmid">40691794</article-id>
<article-id pub-id-type="publisher-id">4200</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12916-025-04200-0</article-id><article-categories><subj-group subj-group-type="heading"><subject>Review</subject></subj-group></article-categories><title-group><article-title>Trajectory of the body weight after drug discontinuation in the treatment of anti-obesity medications</article-title></title-group><contrib-group><contrib contrib-type="author" equal-contrib="yes"><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>Han</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1"/></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" equal-contrib="yes"><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>Wenjia</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1"/></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Guo</surname><given-names>Tong</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1"/></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Cai</surname><given-names>Xiaoling</given-names></name><address><email>dr_junel@sina.com</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1"/></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Ji</surname><given-names>Linong</given-names></name><address><email>jiln@bjmu.edu.cn</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1"/></contrib><aff id="Aff1"><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/035adwg89</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.411634.5</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 0632 4559</institution-id><institution>Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, </institution><institution>Peking University People&#x02019;s Hospital, </institution></institution-wrap>No. 11, Xizhimen South Street, Xicheng District, Beijing, 100044 People&#x02019;s Republic of China </aff></contrib-group><pub-date pub-type="epub"><day>22</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="pmc-release"><day>22</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="collection"><year>2025</year></pub-date><volume>23</volume><elocation-id>398</elocation-id><history><date date-type="received"><day>3</day><month>5</month><year>2024</year></date><date date-type="accepted"><day>5</day><month>6</month><year>2025</year></date></history><permissions><copyright-statement>&#x000a9; The Author(s) 2025</copyright-statement><copyright-year>2025</copyright-year><license><ali:license_ref specific-use="textmining" content-type="ccbyncndlicense">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ali:license_ref><license-p><bold>Open Access</bold> This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed material. You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/">http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ext-link>.</license-p></license></permissions><abstract id="Abs1"><sec><title>Background</title><p id="Par1">Globally, obesity has emerged as a significant public health concern, imposing detrimental impacts on human health. The purpose of our study was to explore the long-term effects of anti-obesity medications (AOMs) on body weight and to draw the trajectory of weight change after discontinuation of AOMs.</p></sec><sec><title>Methods</title><p id="Par2">PubMed, Medline, Embase, the Cochrane Center Register of Controlled Trials for Studies, and Clinicaltrials.gov were searched from the inception to March 2024. Randomized controlled trials of AOMs conducted in population for at least 4 weeks and followed for 4 or more weeks after discontinuation were included. Weight change during treatment and after drug discontinuation was also reported. Random-effect model and meta-regression analysis were accordingly used.</p></sec><sec><title>Results</title><p id="Par3">At week 4 after discontinuation, compared with the control group, AOM treatment still had weight loss effect (WMD&#x02009;=&#x02009;&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;0.32 kg, 95% CI&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;3.60&#x02013;2.97, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.85, <italic>I</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;=&#x02009;83%). At 8 weeks after drug discontinuation, AOMs were associated with significant weight regain compared with the control group (WMD&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.50 kg, 95% CI 1.32&#x02013;1.68, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.0001, <italic>I</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.0%). The weight regain trend remained at 12 and 20 weeks (WMD&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.76 kg, 95% CI 1.29&#x02013;2.24, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.0001, <italic>I</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;=&#x02009;72.0%; WMD&#x02009;=&#x02009;2.50 kg, 95% CI 2.27&#x02013;2.73, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.0001, <italic>I</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.0%). Among the different subgroups of AOMs, significant weight regain after 12 weeks of drug discontinuation was observed only in studies with glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist (GLP-1 RA) related drugs. In addition, studies in which weight loss was greater during treatment than in the control group and studies in which lifestyle interventions were continued observed significant weight gain after drug discontinuation.</p></sec><sec><title>Conclusion</title><p id="Par4">Significant weight regain occurred 8 weeks after discontinuation of AOMs and was sustained through 20 weeks. Different weight regain was observed in subjects with different characteristics. Studies with longer follow-up duration are required to further investigate the potential factors associated with weight change after discontinuation of treatment.</p></sec><sec><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12916-025-04200-0.</p></sec></abstract><kwd-group xml:lang="en"><title>Keywords</title><kwd>Weight change trajectory</kwd><kwd>Treatment discontinuation</kwd><kwd>Anti-obesity medication</kwd><kwd>Meta-analysis</kwd></kwd-group><custom-meta-group><custom-meta><meta-name>issue-copyright-statement</meta-name><meta-value>&#x000a9; BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2025</meta-value></custom-meta></custom-meta-group></article-meta></front><body><sec id="Sec1"><title>Background</title><p id="Par14">Obesity is an important issue of human health in the world today. By 2020, an estimated 2.2 billion adults worldwide were suffering from overweight and obesity, and it is predicted that this number will increase to 3.3 billion by 2035 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>]. Meanwhile, it was demonstrated that obesity was significantly associated with the increased risks of numerous complications, including cardiovascular disorders, diabetes mellitus, and certain cancers [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>].</p><p id="Par15">As recommended by the guidelines, lifestyle/behavioral therapy, pharmacotherapy, and bariatric surgery were of importance in the management of weight control [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>], in which anti-obesity medications (AOMs) have been proved to be beneficial to obesity-related co-morbidity management [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>]. There are currently 6 medications (orlistat, naltrexone-bupropion, liraglutide, semaglutide, tirzepatide, and phentermine-topiramate) that have been approved for the treatment of obesity in adults [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>].</p><p id="Par16">It was shown that the long-term use of these AOMs in adults contributed to significant weight loss in many studies [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>]. However, it was reported that there would be weight regain after discontinuation of AOMs. A European 2-year multicenter trial observed significant weight regain in patients who discontinued orlistat and switched to placebo compared with those who continued [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>]. In a randomized controlled trial (RCT) evaluating the weight change using semaglutide, it was also found that after discontinuation of semaglutide, the patients gained weight significantly as well as a significant increase in blood pressure [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>], which was a reminder that weight regain may have some adverse effects. Meanwhile, there were studies showing that weight regain can cause some metabolic indicators to revert back such as plasma lipids, blood pressure, fasting glucose, and insulin concentrations [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>].</p><p id="Par17">However, current systematic conclusions about weight regain mostly came from the studies of bariatric surgery or behavioral interventions. So far, the long-term change of weight after discontinuation of AOMs is still lacking of systematic evaluation. Therefore, it is now timely to conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis to explore the long-term effects of AOMs on body weight after treatment discontinuation, and provide intuitive evidence by means of weight change trajectory.</p></sec><sec id="Sec2"><title>Methods</title><p id="Par18">The Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses statement was used to conduct this meta-analysis [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>]. The study protocol is available in the International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews (registration No. CRD42023385404).</p><sec id="Sec3"><title>Data sources and search strategy</title><p id="Par19">Systematic searches were conducted in PubMed, Medline, Embase, the Cochrane Center Register of Controlled Trials for Studies, and Clinicaltrials.gov last updated on March 8, 2024. Two investigators (HW and TG) independently searched for clinical trials aiming at weight management treatment. The search strategy details are provided in Additional file <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">1</xref>: Table S1.</p></sec><sec id="Sec4"><title>Study selection</title><p id="Par20">The criteria for including studies in this meta-analysis were as follows: (1) (i) randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing different AOMs with placebo, including glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist (GLP-1 RA), dual glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) and GLP-1 RAs, GLP-1 and glucagon receptor (GCGR) dual-agonist, orlistat, lorcaserin, naltrexone-bupropion, phentermine-topiramate, and bimagrumab; or (ii) RCTs comparing different AOMs with active drug control; (2) studies with treatment duration &#x02265;&#x02009;4 weeks and with follow-up duration &#x02265;&#x02009;4 weeks; (3) RCTs reporting both the body weight changes from baseline in the process of treatment and the body weight changes after treatment discontinuation in the follow-up study.</p><p id="Par21">The criteria for exclusion are as follows: (1) studies that focus on non-adult individuals or pregnant adults; (2) studies with a duration of less than 24 weeks; (3) studies that did not report the change in weight after treatment discontinuation.</p></sec><sec id="Sec5"><title>Outcome measures</title><p id="Par22">In this meta-analysis, the primary outcome was the change in body weight at the specified cutoff point after treatment discontinuation as compared to the control group The secondary outcome was the change in BMI at the specified cutoff point after treatment discontinuation as compared to the control group. In the sensitivity analysis, we evaluate associations with weight change of the following subcategories: (1) different control groups, including placebo control and active control, (2) different baseline BMI, including BMI &#x0003c;&#x02009;35 and BMI &#x02265;&#x02009;35, (3) different indications, including obesity alone and obesity with type 2 diabetes, (4) GLP-1 related and non GLP-1 related treatments, (5) significant weight loss and not significant weight loss when AOMs compared to the controls, (6) different lifestyle intervention.</p></sec><sec id="Sec6"><title>Data extraction and quality assessments</title><p id="Par23">We removed the duplicates and screened the remaining articles at the title and abstract level according to the pre-determined inclusion and exclusion criteria for possible inclusions. The process of search and selection was performed by two independent blinded investigators (HW and GT). If either investigator considered a study potentially eligible, we further obtained and screened the full text. We invited a third investigator (WY) to join the discussion and resolved discrepancies by consensus (Additional file <xref rid="MOESM2" ref-type="media">2</xref>: Fig. S1).</p><p id="Par24">Two investigators (HW and TG) independently performed the data extraction from each publication using a standardized form: publication data, baseline characteristics of the study population (sample size, sex, age, body mass index (BMI), body weight, abdominal circumference, waist-to-hip ratio, visceral adipose tissue (measured by computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, or dual-emission X-ray absorptiometry)), duration of follow-up, weight change during treatment and after treatment discontinuation, description of the weight management group and control group. Disagreements or discrepancies were resolved by discussion between the two investigators and a third investigator (WY).</p><p id="Par25">Two investigators (HW and TG) independently assessed the quality of each included study using Cochrane risk of bias instrument [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR21">21</xref>]. Each study is judged on seven items: sequence generation, allocation concealment, blinding of participants and personnel, blinding of outcome assessors, incomplete outcome data, selective outcome reporting, and other sources of bias.</p></sec><sec id="Sec7"><title>Data synthesis and analysis</title><p id="Par26">In this meta-analysis, weighted mean differences (WMDs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated for continuous measures. We used mean changes from the time of drug discontinuation to the specified cutoff point of follow-up (week 4, week 8, week 12, week 20, week 26, and week 52) and standard deviations (SDs) extracted from published data when reported. When SDs were missing, we estimated them from standard errors or confidence intervals. Meta-regression analysis was performed to evaluate the association between regain in body weight and participant characteristics. A <italic>P</italic> value &#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05 was considered statistically significant.</p><p id="Par27">Between-study heterogeneity was assessed using the <italic>Q</italic> test and <italic>&#x00399;</italic><sup>2</sup> statistic, with significance set at <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c; 0.05; heterogeneity was considered low, moderate, substantial, or considerable for estimated <italic>I</italic><sup>2</sup> value of 0&#x02013;40%, 30&#x02013;60%, 50&#x02013;90%, and 75&#x02013;100%, respectively. The random-effect model was used in this meta-analysis. All analyses were conducted with Review Manager, version 5.4 (Nordic Cochrane Centre, Copenhagen, Denmark). Meta-regression analyses were conducted with STATA statistical software package, version 18.1 (Stata Corp, College Station, TX, USA).</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec8"><title>Results</title><p id="Par28">A total of 11 studies were included in this meta-analysis, including 6 studies on GLP-1 RA, 1 study on GLP-1 and GIP dual receptor agonists, 1 study on orlistat, 2 studies on phentermine-topiramate, and 1 study on naltrexone-bupropion (Additional file <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">1</xref>: Table S2) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR22">22</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR32">32</xref>]. There were 8 placebo controls and 3 active drug controls studies with 1573 participants in the treatment group and 893 in the control group. The baseline characteristics and risk of bias evaluation for the included studies were summarized in Additional file <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">1</xref>: Tables S2 and S3. The overall risk of bias was low.</p><sec id="Sec9"><title>Trajectory of weight change after discontinuation of AOMs</title><sec id="Sec10"><title>Overall</title><p id="Par29">Overall, compared with control groups, AOM treatment was significantly associated with greater weight regain which varied according to follow-up time point after treatment discontinuation (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>; Additional file <xref rid="MOESM2" ref-type="media">2</xref>: Fig. S2). At week 4, compared with control groups, AOM treatment still resulted in 0.32 kg (95% CI &#x02212;&#x02009;3.60 to 2.97, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;= 0.85, <italic>&#x00399;</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 83%) weight loss, while at weeks 8, 12, 20, 26, and 52, AOMs were associated with significant weight regain when compared with controls (WMD =&#x02009;1.50 kg, 95% CI 1.32 to 1.68, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c; 0.0001, <italic>&#x00399;</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 0.0%; WMD =&#x02009;1.76 kg, 95% CI 1.29 to 2.24, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c; 0.0001, <italic>&#x00399;</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 72.0%; WMD =&#x02009;2.50 kg, 95% CI 2.27 to 2.73, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c; 0.0001, <italic>&#x00399;</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 0.0%; WMD =&#x02009;2.30 kg, 95% CI 0.53 to 4.07, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;= 0.01, <italic>&#x00399;</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 0.0%; WMD =&#x02009;2.47 kg, 95% CI 0.24 to 4.70, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;= 0.03, <italic>&#x00399;</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 92.0%, respectively). Figure&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref> shows the weight regain trajectory at different follow-up time points after treatment discontinuation. It can be seen from the figure that the weight had significantly regained in 8 weeks after treatment discontinuation, and showed a rising trend within 12 weeks and 20 weeks after treatment discontinuation, and then the weight regain gradually stabilized. Weight loss persisted 52 weeks after discontinuation of AOMs, as compared with baseline.<fig id="Fig1"><label>Fig. 1</label><caption><p>Weight change at specific time point after treatment discontinuation. AOM: anti-obesity medication</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4200_Fig1_HTML" id="MO1"/></fig><fig id="Fig2"><label>Fig. 2</label><caption><p>Weight and BMI regain trajectory after treatment of AOM withdrawal. BMI: body mass index</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4200_Fig2_HTML" id="MO2"/></fig></p></sec><sec id="Sec11"><title>Stratified by baseline weight or BMI</title><p id="Par30">Subgroup analyses were performed bounded by the weighted median of baseline weight (105.6 kg). Significant weight regain was observed in both subgroups (WMD =&#x02009;1.45 kg, 95% CI 0.62 to 2.28, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;= 0.006,<italic> I</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 72%; WMD =&#x02009;2.24 kg, 95% CI 1.94 to 2.54, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c; 0.001,<italic> I</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 0.0%), but no significant difference was observed between the two subgroups.</p><p id="Par31">In the subgroup analyses that used a BMI cutoff of 35 kg/m<sup>2</sup>, significant weight regain was only observed in the subgroup with lower BMI when compared to the control group (WMD =&#x02009;1.66 kg, 95% CI 0.87 to 2.44, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c; 0.001,<italic> I</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 71%). Contrary to common knowledge, patients in the subgroup with a higher BMI did not show significant weight gain (WMD =&#x02009;1.21 kg, 95% CI &#x02212;&#x02009;1.24 to 3.60, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;= 0.33, <italic>I</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 72%) and there were no significant differences between the subgroups (<italic>P</italic>&#x02009;= 0.73) (Additional file <xref rid="MOESM2" ref-type="media">2</xref>: Fig. S3).</p></sec><sec id="Sec12"><title>Stratified by placebo control or active control</title><p id="Par32">Considering the RCTs including placebo and active control, we performed a subgroup analysis between them. When combined placebo controlled studies as a whole, significant weight regain was observed when compared with placebo group (WMD =&#x02009;1.72 kg, 95% CI 1.20 to 2.23, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c; 0.001, <italic>I</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 83%). The same result was obtained in the active controlled studies (WMD =&#x02009;2.37 kg, 95% CI 0.30 to 4.44, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;= 0.02, <italic>I</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 0%), while there is no statistically significant distinction observed between the two subgroups (<italic>P</italic>&#x02009;= 0.55) (Additional file <xref rid="MOESM2" ref-type="media">2</xref>: Fig. S3).</p></sec><sec id="Sec13"><title>Stratified by different indications</title><p id="Par33">For indication of obesity alone, AOMs resulted in 1.31 kg (95% CI 0.38 to 2.24, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;= 0.006, <italic>I</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 73%) weight regain compared with control groups. With indication of diabetes, AOMs resulted in 2.24 kg (95% CI 1.94 to 2.54, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c; 0.001, <italic>I</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 0%) weight change compared with control groups. There were no statistically significant differences observed between the two subgroups (<italic>P</italic>&#x02009;= 0.06) (Additional file <xref rid="MOESM2" ref-type="media">2</xref>: Fig. S3).</p></sec><sec id="Sec14"><title>Stratified by GLP-1 related and non GLP-1 related treatments</title><p id="Par34">In the included RCTs, GLP-1 related drugs (including liraglutide, semaglutide, beinaglutide, exenatide, and AMG133) showed significant weight regain compared with control group (WMD =&#x02009;1.78 kg, 95% CI 0.76 to 2.80, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;= 0.006, <italic>I</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 85%). Regarding to the non GLP-1 related weight management strategies, no significant weight regain was observed (WMD =&#x02009;1.23 kg, 95% CI &#x02212;&#x02009;0.58 to 3.04, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;= 0.18, <italic>I</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 53%). There was no significant difference in weight regain between the two groups (<italic>P</italic>&#x02009;= 0.61) (Additional file <xref rid="MOESM2" ref-type="media">2</xref>: Fig. S3).</p></sec><sec id="Sec15"><title>Stratified by lifestyle intervention</title><p id="Par35">Continuation of lifestyle interventions after treatment discontinuation may affect the extent of weight regain. In the study, the subgroup with continuous lifestyle intervention showed significant weight regain (WMD =&#x02009;1.83 kg, 95% CI 1.36 to 2.31, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c; 0.001, <italic>I</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 85%), whereas the subgroup without continuous lifestyle intervention did not (WMD =&#x02009;1.1 kg, 95% CI &#x02212;&#x02009;0.99 to 3.19, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;= 0.30, <italic>I</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 34%) (Additional file <xref rid="MOESM2" ref-type="media">2</xref>: Fig. S3).</p></sec><sec id="Sec16"><title>Stratified by the level of weight reduction</title><p id="Par36">To explore the relationship between significant weight loss during treatment and long-term weight loss maintenance, we performed subgroup analyses of whether significant weight loss was associated with weight regain. RCTs that showed significant weight loss during treatment periods compared with the control group and studies that did not show significant weight loss were divided into two subgroups. Compared to the control group, only the subgroup with significant weight loss during treatment periods demonstrated a substantial regain in weight (WMD =&#x02009;1.76 kg, 95% CI 1.27 to 2.24, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c; 0.001, <italic>I</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 78%). The results suggested that at week 12 after treatment discontinuation, there was no significant difference in weight regain between significant and not significant weight loss subgroup (<italic>P</italic>&#x02009;= 0.99) (Additional file <xref rid="MOESM2" ref-type="media">2</xref>: Fig. S3).</p></sec><sec id="Sec17"><title>Stratified by the rate of weight reduction</title><p id="Par37">When subgroups were grouped by weighted median of the rate of weight reduction, significant weight regain was observed in both the faster and slower subgroups compared with the control group (WMD =&#x02009;1.94 kg, 95% CI 1.62 to 2.20, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c; 0.001, <italic>I</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 83%; WMD =&#x02009;2.0 kg, 95% CI 1.83 to 2.18, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c; 0.001, <italic>I</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 0%, respectively). However, there were no significant differences between two groups (<italic>P</italic>&#x02009;= 0.69).</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec18"><title>Trajectory of BMI change after discontinuation of AOMs</title><p id="Par38">Regarding to BMI change, it was also different at specific follow-up time points after treatment discontinuation. BMI loss continued after treatment discontinuation of weeks 4 and 10 (WMD =&#x02009;&#x02009;&#x02212; 1.77 kg/m<sup>2</sup>, 95% CI &#x02212;&#x02009;2.73 to &#x02212;&#x02009;0.81, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c; 0.001, <italic>I</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 0.0%; WMD =&#x02009;&#x02009;&#x02212; 0.21 kg/m<sup>2</sup>, 95% CI &#x02212;&#x02009;1.31 to 0.88, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;= 0.7, <italic>I</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 0.0%). At weeks 26 and 52, BMI regain was 0.70 kg/m<sup>2</sup> (95% CI 0.36 to 1.04, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c; 0.0001, <italic>I</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 0%) and 0.82 (95% CI 0.66 to 0.98, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c; 0.0001, <italic>I</italic><sup>2</sup>&#x02009;= 83%), respectively. There was a turning point in BMI change trajectory at different follow-up time points after treatment discontinuation (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig3" ref-type="fig">3</xref>).<fig id="Fig3"><label>Fig. 3</label><caption><p>Weight change trajectory of included studies after treatment of AOM withdrawal</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4200_Fig3_HTML" id="MO3"/></fig></p></sec><sec id="Sec19"><title>Association between participant characteristics and weight change</title><p id="Par39">Results of meta-regression indicated that the difference between participants including sex, age, indication, and BMI was not associated with the risk of weight regain, and the same is true of different control group. Meanwhile, the difference between treatment and follow-up duration was also not related to the weight regain and the level and rate of weight reduction did not either (Additional file <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">1</xref>: Table S4).</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec20"><title>Discussion</title><p id="Par40">According to this meta-analysis, AOMs resulted in significant weight loss while being used, followed by weight regain after treatment discontinuation. During the follow-up period, significant weight regain was observed from 8 to 52 weeks after treatment discontinuation (Figs. <xref rid="Fig4" ref-type="fig">4</xref> and <xref rid="Fig5" ref-type="fig">5</xref>).<fig id="Fig4"><label>Fig. 4</label><caption><p>Weight change in GLP-1 related and non GLP-1 related subgroup after 12 weeks of treatment discontinuation</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4200_Fig4_HTML" id="MO4"/></fig><fig id="Fig5"><label>Fig. 5</label><caption><p>GLP-1: glucagon-like peptide 1</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4200_Fig5_HTML" id="MO5"/></fig></p><p id="Par41">According to the trajectory of weight regain, body weight continued to decrease within 4 weeks after treatment discontinuation and then started to show a gradually increasing trend after 8 weeks. After 26 weeks of treatment discontinuation, the trajectory of weight regain leveled off, which implied that significant weight regain might happen at the first 6 months after discontinuation of AOMs. Weight regain was also found in other weight loss strategies. It was reported that patients who received gastric bypass, vertical-banded gastroplasty, or banding all regained an average of more than 5% from their lowest weight at 15 years of follow-up [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR33">33</xref>]. In terms of behavioral weight loss programs, it has been demonstrated that individuals in the behavioral intervention group experienced a more rapid weight regain compared to those in the minimal intervention group. This phenomenon could be correlated with the extent of their initial weight loss [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR34">34</xref>]. Moreover, a 10-year observational study suggested that only 25% of patients who lost weight on a low-calorie diet maintained weight loss [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR35">35</xref>]. Therefore, weight regain is common in various weight loss strategies and it is necessary to establish the long-term anti-obesity treatment in clinical practice.</p><p id="Par42">According to the subgroup analysis, there was no association between the rate of the weight reduction and weight regain, with more significant weight regain observed in the slower rate subgroup. Though there were clinical studies consistent with our results [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR36">36</xref>], it has long been suggested that gradual weight loss is more beneficial for weight regain after treatment discontinuation [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR37">37</xref>]. As for the difference between our study and the previous understanding, it might be due to the fact that the weight loss strategy we focused on was AOMs, and there was no restriction on the degree of weight loss and weight regain when included. Therefore, the relationship between the rate of weight loss and the rate of weight regain remains inconclusive and a more comprehensive systematic analysis is still needed.</p><p id="Par43">Furthermore, the relationship between the level weight loss during treatment and weight gain after discontinuation of treatment remains controversial. Although there was no significant difference between groups, our study observed weight regain only in the subgroup of higher level of weight loss compared with the control group. Previously, some studies have linked greater weight loss to better maintenance of weight loss, while others have linked it to more significant weight regain [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR38">38</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR40">40</xref>]. It was suspected that the latter may be driven by changes in body composition and psychology caused by the weight loss [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR41">41</xref>].</p><p id="Par44">In the subgroup analysis, although no significant differences were observed among the subgroups based on different baseline weight, control groups, and indications, significant weight regain was observed in each subgroup compared with the control group, that is, the weight regain after treatment discontinuation was consistent in obese patients with different characteristics.</p><p id="Par45">Baseline BMI is another indicator for obesity status. In our analysis, significant weight regain was observed only in the lower baseline BMI subgroups which did not conform to the common understanding, possibly because the enrolled patients were more severely obese and then not well differentiated by the BMI cutoff point, and the limited data in the analysis also reduced the confidence of the result. Additional data on weight change after treatment discontinuation in patients with various weight status groups including overweight or mild obesity still needed to be reported.</p><p id="Par46">At week 12 after discontinuation of AOMs, significant weight regain was observed in the GLP-1 related drug subgroup compared to the control group. GLP-1 receptors are abundantly expressed in the pancreas, intestine, and central nervous system. Among them, GLP-1 can increase satiation and reduce appetite by binding to receptors in the central nervous system [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR42">42</xref>]. In addition, GLP-1 causes delayed gastric emptying, which leads to weight loss [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR43">43</xref>]. At the same time, GIP exerts its weight-reducing effects by binding to its receptor&#x02014;GIPR. The activation of GIPR can directly act on adipose tissue to increase energy expenditure and drive weight loss. It can also contribute to weight reduction through the central nervous system. GLP-1 and GIP receptor agonists seem to have a synergistic effect in weight reduction, although the mechanism is not yet clear [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR44">44</xref>]. In contrast, discontinuation of GLP-1 and GIP related drugs attenuates these effects, and the reduction in GLP-1/GIP receptor agonist activity after treatment withdrawal may lead to weight regain. A study on the tirzepatide showed that after completing a 36-week induction treatment period with tirzepatide, participants who switched to a placebo almost regained half of the weight they had previously lost within a year [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR45">45</xref>], which was consistent with our research findings. Moreover, the patients included in the GLP-1 related subgroup all significantly lost weight during treatment, and therefore had a greater likelihood of weight regain.</p><p id="Par47">The process of regaining weight after treatment discontinuation is called weight cycling. It has been theorized that weight cycling may be related to a variety of factors. A 10-week study with a very low energy diet shows that weight loss induces adverse gut hormonal changes that potentially affect weight regain and persist [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR46">46</xref>]. This adverse hormonal change in the gut causes an increase in hunger levels and urge to eat, which promotes weight regain. In addition, weight loss is associated with a reduction in resting energy expenditure due to changes in body composition, so-called metabolic adaptation, which has also been shown to be associated with weight regain [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR47">47</xref>]. At the same time, previous studies have proposed the physiological and behavioral factors of weight regain [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR48">48</xref>] may better complement the relationship between weight loss and weight regain. However, these results are mainly obtained from lifestyle and surgical weight loss strategies, and the mechanism of weight regain after AOM discontinuation needs to be further explored.</p><p id="Par48">The effects of weight cycling on health and systemic metabolism are not thoroughly defined. There is some evidence suggesting that weight cycling has no effect on the risk of type 2 diabetes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR49">49</xref>], and there is no conclusive evidence that previous weight cycling affects body composition or predisposition to obesity. A study compared weight-stable and weight-cycling groups and concluded that weight regain did not adversely affect body fat distribution [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR50">50</xref>]. However, a 9-year follow-up study of Finnish male smokers aged 50&#x02013;69 years [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR51">51</xref>] showed that when compared with weight-stable subjects, subjects with greater weight fluctuations had a significantly increased risk of type 2 diabetes. The impact of weight cycling on obese patients has not been determined so far, so more individual level data may be more meaningful to clinical practice.</p><p id="Par49">In our analysis, the subgroup with continuous lifestyle intervention showed significant weight regain, while the subgroup without the continuous lifestyle intervention did not. The results of subgroup analysis of whether the lifestyle intervention was sustained contrast with those of previous studies which have emphasized the importance of regular exercise for weight loss maintenance [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR52">52</xref>]. A meta-analysis also indicated that lifestyle interventions with frequent patient interactions sustained for a year or longer can achieve more significant weight loss after 1 year and 3 years [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR53">53</xref>]. Among several strategies for lifestyle intervention, regular exercise is conducive to the transformation of energy utilization, and the energy intake is more inclined to be consumed rather than stored, thus reducing weight regain. Furthermore, dietary interventions are recognized as a critical modality for the sustenance of weight reduction. Previous studies have emphasized that the energy deficit is a crucial factor for weight loss, characterized by the discordance between post-weight loss appetite and energy expenditure [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR54">54</xref>]. And a prolonged low-calorie diet effectively generated an energy deficit, thereby sustaining weight loss. In our analysis, there were only three studies in both subgroups, lowering the statistical power of this result. The specific pattern, intensity, and duration of lifestyle intervention in the included studies was not clear. Finally, in some included studies, the primary outcome was not aiming at the weight change after treatment withdrawal, so the information was incomplete. The above reasons may have interfered with the results of our study, which also suggested us to expand the number of included studies and further analyze the detailed intervention methods.</p><p id="Par50">In the studies encompassed within our analysis, four studies provided descriptive data regarding adverse events. One of these studies revealed no significant disparity in the incidence of adverse events between AOM and control cohorts. Another study reported the absence of any participants who discontinued treatment permanently as a consequence of adverse events throughout the study&#x02019;s duration. The remaining two studies reported a higher prevalence of adverse events within the experimental group and instances of study withdrawal, which differed from the discontinuation requested by the researchers. Consequently, it is currently not possible to determine the correlation between adverse events experienced during the treatment period and subsequent weight regain after discontinuation. Furthermore, adverse events that emerged during the follow-up phase were not attributed to the study medication by the researchers. Whether discontinuation due to adverse events has affected the statistical analysis of weight regain still required further research for support.</p><p id="Par51">Of course, this study has a number of limitations. First, due to the small number of included studies, the reported data at each follow-up time point after treatment discontinuation were limited and fewer studies were included in sensitive analyses, reducing the power of the test. Similarly, due to the limited availability of data, the analysis in this study was predominantly focused on weight and BMI metrics. As a result, additional parameters indicative of weight loss efficacy were not included within the scope of this investigation. Secondly, we combined data from trials that varied in duration, baseline characteristics, and types of AOMs, which might result in heterogeneity to the meta-analysis, so we used a random-effects model for statistical analysis. Moreover, we did not include studies of lifestyle interventions and bariatric surgery, leading to the limitation of the trajectory describing weight change after discontinuation of the weight loss strategies. Finally, some of the included studies in this meta-analysis did not take weight change as the primary outcome, and some data were extracted from the appendix or from the Clinicaltrials.gov website, which may introduce potential inconsistencies.</p></sec><sec id="Sec21"><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par52">Significant weight regain occurred 8 weeks after discontinuation of AOMs and was sustained through 20 weeks. Different weight regain was observed in subjects with different characteristics. Studies with longer follow-up duration are required to further investigate the potential factors associated weight change after discontinuation of treatment.</p></sec><sec id="Sec22" sec-type="supplementary-material"><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>
<supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM1"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4200_MOESM1_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Additional file 1: Tables S1&#x02013;S4. Table S1 Searching details of the meta-analysis. Table S2 Baseline characteristics for included studies. Table S3 The risk of bias for included trials. Table S4 Meta-regression analysis for the overall association between characteristics of population and weight regain</p></caption></media></supplementary-material><supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM2"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4200_MOESM2_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Additional file 2: Figures S1&#x02013;S3. Fig. S1 Flow diagram of included studies. Fig. S2 Overall analysis of weight change after drug withdrawal. Fig. S3 Subgroup analysis of weight change after drug withdrawal</p></caption></media></supplementary-material></p></sec></body><back><glossary><title>Abbreviations</title><def-list><def-item><term>AOM</term><def><p id="Par5">Anti-obesity medication</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>WMD</term><def><p id="Par6">Weighted mean difference</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CI</term><def><p id="Par7">Confidence interval</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>SD</term><def><p id="Par8">Standard deviation</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>RCT</term><def><p id="Par9">Randomized controlled trial</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>GLP-1 RA</term><def><p id="Par10">Glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>GIP</term><def><p id="Par11">Glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>GCCR</term><def><p id="Par12">Glucagon receptor</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>BMI</term><def><p id="Par13">Body mass index</p></def></def-item></def-list></glossary><fn-group><fn><p><bold>Publisher&#x02019;s Note</bold></p><p>Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.</p></fn><fn><p>Han Wu and Wenjia Yang contributed equally to this work and share first authorship.</p></fn></fn-group><ack><title>Acknowledgements</title><p>We thank the doctors, nurses, and technicians for their dedicated work during the study at the Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism in Peking University People&#x02019;s Hospital.</p></ack><notes notes-type="author-contribution"><title>Authors&#x02019; contributions</title><p>L.J. and X.C. conceptualized this study and designed the systematic review protocol; H.W. and TG performed the study selection and data extraction; X.C and W.Y. checked the data for accuracy; H.W. and W.Y. performed the statistical analyses; H.W., W.Y. and XC prepared the outlines and wrote the manuscript. All authors contributed to the critical revision of manuscript drafts and they read and approved the final manuscript.</p></notes><notes notes-type="funding-information"><title>Funding</title><p>None.</p></notes><notes notes-type="data-availability"><title>Data availability</title><p>No datasets were generated or analysed during the current study.</p></notes><notes><title>Declarations</title><notes id="FPar1"><title>Ethics approval and consent to participate</title><p id="Par53">Not applicable.</p></notes><notes id="FPar2"><title>Consent for publication</title><p id="Par54">Not applicable.</p></notes><notes id="FPar3" notes-type="COI-statement"><title>Competing interests</title><p id="Par55">The authors declare no competing interests.</p></notes></notes><ref-list id="Bib1"><title>References</title><ref id="CR1"><label>1.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">World Obesity Federation. World Obesity Atlas. 2024. Available at:&#x000a0;<ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://data.worldobesity.org/publications/?cat=22">https://data.worldobesity.org/publications/?cat=22</ext-link>. Accessed March, 2024.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR2"><label>2.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR2" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ortega</surname><given-names>FB</given-names></name><name><surname>Lavie</surname><given-names>CJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Blair</surname><given-names>SN</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Obesity and cardiovascular disease</article-title><source>Circ Res</source><year>2016</year><volume>118</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>1752</fpage><lpage>1770</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1161/CIRCRESAHA.115.306883</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 27230640?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27230640</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR2" publication-type="journal">Ortega FB, Lavie CJ, Blair SN. Obesity and cardiovascular disease. Circ Res. 2016;118(11):1752&#x02013;70.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27230640</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR3"><label>3.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR3" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Abdullah</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Peeters</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>de Courten</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Stoelwinder</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The magnitude of association between overweight and obesity and the risk of diabetes: a meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies</article-title><source>Diabetes Res Clin Pract</source><year>2010</year><volume>89</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>309</fpage><lpage>319</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.diabres.2010.04.012</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 20493574?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20493574</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR3" publication-type="journal">Abdullah A, Peeters A, de Courten M, Stoelwinder J. The magnitude of association between overweight and obesity and the risk of diabetes: a meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2010;89(3):309&#x02013;19.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20493574</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR4"><label>4.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR4" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Calle</surname><given-names>EE</given-names></name><name><surname>Rodriguez</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Walker-Thurmond</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Thun</surname><given-names>MJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Overweight, obesity, and mortality from cancer in a prospectively studied cohort of U.S. adults</article-title><source>N Engl J Med.</source><year>2003</year><volume>348</volume><issue>17</issue><fpage>1625</fpage><lpage>1638</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1056/NEJMoa021423</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 12711737?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">12711737</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR4" publication-type="journal">Calle EE, Rodriguez C, Walker-Thurmond K, Thun MJ. Overweight, obesity, and mortality from cancer in a prospectively studied cohort of U.S. adults. N Engl J Med. 2003;348(17):1625&#x02013;38.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">12711737</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR5"><label>5.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR5" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Grover</surname><given-names>SA</given-names></name><name><surname>Kaouache</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Rempel</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Years of life lost and healthy life-years lost from diabetes and cardiovascular disease in overweight and obese people: a modelling study</article-title><source>Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol</source><year>2015</year><volume>3</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>114</fpage><lpage>122</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/S2213-8587(14)70229-3</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 25483220?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25483220</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR5" publication-type="journal">Grover SA, Kaouache M, Rempel P, et al. Years of life lost and healthy life-years lost from diabetes and cardiovascular disease in overweight and obese people: a modelling study. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol. 2015;3(2):114&#x02013;22.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25483220</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR6"><label>6.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR6" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Grunvald</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Shah</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Hernaez</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>AGA clinical practice guideline on pharmacological interventions for adults with obesity</article-title><source>Gastroenterology</source><year>2022</year><volume>163</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>1198</fpage><lpage>1225</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1053/j.gastro.2022.08.045</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 36273831?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36273831</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR6" publication-type="journal">Grunvald E, Shah R, Hernaez R, et al. AGA clinical practice guideline on pharmacological interventions for adults with obesity. Gastroenterology. 2022;163(5):1198&#x02013;225.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36273831</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR7"><label>7.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">American Diabetes Association Professional Practice Committee. 8. Obesity and weight management for the prevention and treatment of type 2 diabetes: standards of medical care in diabetes-2022.&#x000a0;Diabetes Care. 2022;45(Suppl 1):S113-S124.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR8"><label>8.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR8" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Samson</surname><given-names>SL</given-names></name><name><surname>Vellanki</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Blonde</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>American Association of Clinical Endocrinology consensus statement: comprehensive type 2 diabetes management algorithm - 2023 Update</article-title><source>Endocr Pract</source><year>2023</year><volume>29</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>305</fpage><lpage>340</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.eprac.2023.02.001</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 37150579?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37150579</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR8" publication-type="journal">Samson SL, Vellanki P, Blonde L, et al. American Association of Clinical Endocrinology consensus statement: comprehensive type 2 diabetes management algorithm - 2023 Update. Endocr Pract. 2023;29(5):305&#x02013;40.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37150579</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR9"><label>9.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR9" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Abbasi</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>FDA green-lights tirzepatide, marketed as Zepbound, for chronic weight management</article-title><source>JAMA</source><year>2023</year><volume>330</volume><issue>22</issue><fpage>2143</fpage><lpage>2144</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1001/jama.2023.24539</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 37966831?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37966831</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR9" publication-type="journal">Abbasi J. FDA green-lights tirzepatide, marketed as Zepbound, for chronic weight management. JAMA. 2023;330(22):2143&#x02013;4.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37966831</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR10"><label>10.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR10" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>R&#x000f6;ssner</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Sj&#x000f6;str&#x000f6;m</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Noack</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Meinders</surname><given-names>AE</given-names></name><name><surname>Noseda</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Weight loss, weight maintenance, and improved cardiovascular risk factors after 2 years treatment with orlistat for obesity. European Orlistat Obesity Study Group</article-title><source>Obes Res.</source><year>2000</year><volume>8</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>49</fpage><lpage>61</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1038/oby.2000.8</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 10678259?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">10678259</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR10" publication-type="journal">R&#x000f6;ssner S, Sj&#x000f6;str&#x000f6;m L, Noack R, Meinders AE, Noseda G. Weight loss, weight maintenance, and improved cardiovascular risk factors after 2 years treatment with orlistat for obesity. European Orlistat Obesity Study Group. Obes Res. 2000;8(1):49&#x02013;61.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">10678259</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR11"><label>11.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR11" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Smith</surname><given-names>SR</given-names></name><name><surname>Weissman</surname><given-names>NJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Anderson</surname><given-names>CM</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Multicenter, placebo-controlled trial of lorcaserin for weight management</article-title><source>N Engl J Med</source><year>2010</year><volume>363</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>245</fpage><lpage>256</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1056/NEJMoa0909809</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 20647200?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20647200</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR11" publication-type="journal">Smith SR, Weissman NJ, Anderson CM, et al. Multicenter, placebo-controlled trial of lorcaserin for weight management. N Engl J Med. 2010;363(3):245&#x02013;56.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20647200</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR12"><label>12.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR12" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Nissen</surname><given-names>SE</given-names></name><name><surname>Wolski</surname><given-names>KE</given-names></name><name><surname>Prcela</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Effect of naltrexone-bupropion on major adverse cardiovascular events in overweight and obese patients with cardiovascular risk factors: a randomized clinical trial</article-title><source>JAMA</source><year>2016</year><volume>315</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>990</fpage><lpage>1004</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1001/jama.2016.1558</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 26954408?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26954408</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR12" publication-type="journal">Nissen SE, Wolski KE, Prcela L, et al. Effect of naltrexone-bupropion on major adverse cardiovascular events in overweight and obese patients with cardiovascular risk factors: a randomized clinical trial. JAMA. 2016;315(10):990&#x02013;1004.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26954408</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR13"><label>13.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR13" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>le Roux</surname><given-names>CW</given-names></name><name><surname>Astrup</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Fujioka</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>3 years of liraglutide versus placebo for type 2 diabetes risk reduction and weight management in individuals with prediabetes: a randomised, double-blind trial</article-title><source>Lancet.</source><year>2017</year><volume>389</volume><issue>10077</issue><fpage>1399</fpage><lpage>1409</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/S0140-6736(17)30069-7</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 28237263?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28237263</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR13" publication-type="journal">le Roux CW, Astrup A, Fujioka K, et al. 3 years of liraglutide versus placebo for type 2 diabetes risk reduction and weight management in individuals with prediabetes: a randomised, double-blind trial. Lancet. 2017;389(10077):1399&#x02013;409.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28237263</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR14"><label>14.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR14" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Garvey</surname><given-names>WT</given-names></name><name><surname>Ryan</surname><given-names>DH</given-names></name><name><surname>Look</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Two-year sustained weight loss and metabolic benefits with controlled-release phentermine/topiramate in obese and overweight adults (SEQUEL): a randomized, placebo-controlled, phase 3 extension study</article-title><source>Am J Clin Nutr</source><year>2012</year><volume>95</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>297</fpage><lpage>308</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.3945/ajcn.111.024927</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 22158731?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22158731</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR14" publication-type="journal">Garvey WT, Ryan DH, Look M, et al. Two-year sustained weight loss and metabolic benefits with controlled-release phentermine/topiramate in obese and overweight adults (SEQUEL): a randomized, placebo-controlled, phase 3 extension study. Am J Clin Nutr. 2012;95(2):297&#x02013;308.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22158731</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR15"><label>15.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR15" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Jastreboff</surname><given-names>AM</given-names></name><name><surname>Aronne</surname><given-names>LJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Ahmad</surname><given-names>NN</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Tirzepatide once weekly for the treatment of obesity</article-title><source>N Engl J Med</source><year>2022</year><volume>387</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>205</fpage><lpage>216</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1056/NEJMoa2206038</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 35658024?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35658024</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR15" publication-type="journal">Jastreboff AM, Aronne LJ, Ahmad NN, et al. Tirzepatide once weekly for the treatment of obesity. N Engl J Med. 2022;387(3):205&#x02013;16.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35658024</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR16"><label>16.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR16" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sj&#x000f6;str&#x000f6;m</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Rissanen</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Andersen</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Randomised placebo-controlled trial of orlistat for weight loss and prevention of weight regain in obese patients</article-title><source>European Multicentre Orlistat Study Group Lancet</source><year>1998</year><volume>352</volume><issue>9123</issue><fpage>167</fpage><lpage>172</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR16" publication-type="journal">Sj&#x000f6;str&#x000f6;m L, Rissanen A, Andersen T, et al. Randomised placebo-controlled trial of orlistat for weight loss and prevention of weight regain in obese patients. European Multicentre Orlistat Study Group Lancet. 1998;352(9123):167&#x02013;72.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR17"><label>17.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR17" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Rubino</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Abrahamsson</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Davies</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Effect of continued weekly subcutaneous semaglutide vs placebo on weight loss maintenance in adults with overweight or obesity: the STEP 4 randomized clinical trial</article-title><source>JAMA</source><year>2021</year><volume>325</volume><issue>14</issue><fpage>1414</fpage><lpage>1425</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1001/jama.2021.3224</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 33755728?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33755728</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR17" publication-type="journal">Rubino D, Abrahamsson N, Davies M, et al. Effect of continued weekly subcutaneous semaglutide vs placebo on weight loss maintenance in adults with overweight or obesity: the STEP 4 randomized clinical trial. JAMA. 2021;325(14):1414&#x02013;25.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33755728</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR18"><label>18.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR18" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Hartmann-Boyce</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Theodoulou</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Oke</surname><given-names>JL</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Long-term effect of weight regain following behavioral weight management programs on cardiometabolic disease incidence and risk: systematic review and meta-analysis</article-title><source>Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes</source><year>2023</year><volume>16</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>e009348</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.122.009348</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 36974678?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36974678</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR18" publication-type="journal">Hartmann-Boyce J, Theodoulou A, Oke JL, et al. Long-term effect of weight regain following behavioral weight management programs on cardiometabolic disease incidence and risk: systematic review and meta-analysis. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2023;16(4):e009348.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36974678</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR19"><label>19.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR19" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Thillainadesan</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Madsen</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>James</surname><given-names>DE</given-names></name><name><surname>Hocking</surname><given-names>SL</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The impact of weight cycling on health outcomes in animal models: a systematic review and meta-analysis</article-title><source>Obes Rev</source><year>2022</year><volume>23</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>e13416</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1111/obr.13416</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 35075766?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35075766</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR19" publication-type="journal">Thillainadesan S, Madsen S, James DE, Hocking SL. The impact of weight cycling on health outcomes in animal models: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Obes Rev. 2022;23(5):e13416.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35075766</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR20"><label>20.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR20" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Moher</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Liberati</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Tetzlaff</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Altman</surname><given-names>DG</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses: the PRISMA statement</article-title><source>BMJ</source><year>2009</year><volume>339</volume><fpage>b2535</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1136/bmj.b2535</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 19622551?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">19622551</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR20" publication-type="journal">Moher D, Liberati A, Tetzlaff J, Altman DG. Preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses: the PRISMA statement. BMJ. 2009;339:b2535.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">19622551</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR21"><label>21.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Higgins JPT, Green S (eds). Cochrane handbook for systematic reviews of interventions. Version 5.1.0. Chichester, UK: Cochrane Collaboration; 2011.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR22"><label>22.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR22" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Davies</surname><given-names>MJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Bergenstal</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Bode</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Efficacy of liraglutide for weight loss among patients with type 2 diabetes: the SCALE Diabetes randomized clinical trial</article-title><source>JAMA.</source><year>2015</year><volume>314</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>687</fpage><lpage>699</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1001/jama.2015.9676</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 26284720?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26284720</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR22" publication-type="journal">Davies MJ, Bergenstal R, Bode B, et al. Efficacy of liraglutide for weight loss among patients with type 2 diabetes: the SCALE Diabetes randomized clinical trial. JAMA. 2015;314(7):687&#x02013;99.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26284720</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR23"><label>23.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR23" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Khoo</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Hsiang</surname><given-names>JC</given-names></name><name><surname>Taneja</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Randomized trial comparing effects of weight loss by liraglutide with lifestyle modification in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease</article-title><source>Liver Int</source><year>2019</year><volume>39</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>941</fpage><lpage>949</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1111/liv.14065</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 30721572?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30721572</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR23" publication-type="journal">Khoo J, Hsiang JC, Taneja R, et al. Randomized trial comparing effects of weight loss by liraglutide with lifestyle modification in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Liver Int. 2019;39(5):941&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30721572</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR24"><label>24.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR24" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Svensson</surname><given-names>CK</given-names></name><name><surname>Larsen</surname><given-names>JR</given-names></name><name><surname>Vedtofte</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>One-year follow-up on liraglutide treatment for prediabetes and overweight/obesity in clozapine- or olanzapine-treated patients</article-title><source>Acta Psychiatr Scand</source><year>2019</year><volume>139</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>26</fpage><lpage>36</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1111/acps.12982</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 30374965?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30374965</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR24" publication-type="journal">Svensson CK, Larsen JR, Vedtofte L, et al. One-year follow-up on liraglutide treatment for prediabetes and overweight/obesity in clozapine- or olanzapine-treated patients. Acta Psychiatr Scand. 2019;139(1):26&#x02013;36.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30374965</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR25"><label>25.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR25" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wilding</surname><given-names>JPH</given-names></name><name><surname>Batterham</surname><given-names>RL</given-names></name><name><surname>Davies</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Weight regain and cardiometabolic effects after withdrawal of semaglutide: the STEP 1 trial extension</article-title><source>Diabetes Obes Metab</source><year>2022</year><volume>24</volume><issue>8</issue><fpage>1553</fpage><lpage>1564</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1111/dom.14725</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 35441470?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35441470</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR25" publication-type="journal">Wilding JPH, Batterham RL, Davies M, et al. Weight regain and cardiometabolic effects after withdrawal of semaglutide: the STEP 1 trial extension. Diabetes Obes Metab. 2022;24(8):1553&#x02013;64.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35441470</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR26"><label>26.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR26" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Shan</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Beinaglutide for weight management in Chinese individuals with overweight or obesity: a phase 3 randomized controlled clinical study</article-title><source>Diabetes Obes Metab</source><year>2024</year><volume>26</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>690</fpage><lpage>698</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1111/dom.15360</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 37945546?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37945546</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR26" publication-type="journal">Chen K, Chen L, Shan Z, et al. Beinaglutide for weight management in Chinese individuals with overweight or obesity: a phase 3 randomized controlled clinical study. Diabetes Obes Metab. 2024;26(2):690&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37945546</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR27"><label>27.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR27" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bunck</surname><given-names>MC</given-names></name><name><surname>Corn&#x000e9;r</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Eliasson</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Effects of exenatide on measures of &#x003b2;-cell function after 3 years in metformin-treated patients with type 2 diabetes</article-title><source>Diabetes Care</source><year>2011</year><volume>34</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>2041</fpage><lpage>2047</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.2337/dc11-0291</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 21868779?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21868779</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR27" publication-type="journal">Bunck MC, Corn&#x000e9;r A, Eliasson B, et al. Effects of exenatide on measures of &#x003b2;-cell function after 3 years in metformin-treated patients with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care. 2011;34(9):2041&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21868779</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR28"><label>28.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR28" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>V&#x000e9;niant</surname><given-names>MM</given-names></name><name><surname>Lu</surname><given-names>SC</given-names></name><name><surname>Atangan</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>A GIPR antagonist conjugated to GLP-1 analogues promotes weight loss with improved metabolic parameters in preclinical and phase 1 settings</article-title><source>Nat Metab</source><year>2024</year><volume>6</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>290</fpage><lpage>303</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1038/s42255-023-00966-w</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 38316982?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38316982</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR28" publication-type="journal">V&#x000e9;niant MM, Lu SC, Atangan L, et al. A GIPR antagonist conjugated to GLP-1 analogues promotes weight loss with improved metabolic parameters in preclinical and phase 1 settings. Nat Metab. 2024;6(2):290&#x02013;303.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38316982</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR29"><label>29.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR29" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Grilo</surname><given-names>CM</given-names></name><name><surname>Masheb</surname><given-names>RM</given-names></name><name><surname>Salant</surname><given-names>SL</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Cognitive behavioral therapy guided self-help and orlistat for the treatment of binge eating disorder: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial</article-title><source>Biol Psychiatry</source><year>2005</year><volume>57</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>1193</fpage><lpage>1201</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.biopsych.2005.03.001</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 15866560?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15866560</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR29" publication-type="journal">Grilo CM, Masheb RM, Salant SL. Cognitive behavioral therapy guided self-help and orlistat for the treatment of binge eating disorder: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Biol Psychiatry. 2005;57(10):1193&#x02013;201.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15866560</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR30"><label>30.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR30" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Weintraub</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Sundaresan</surname><given-names>PR</given-names></name><name><surname>Schuster</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Averbuch</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Stein</surname><given-names>EC</given-names></name><name><surname>Byrne</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Long-term weight control study. V (weeks 190 to 210). Follow-up of participants after cessation of medication</article-title><source>Clin Pharmacol Ther.</source><year>1992</year><volume>51</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>615</fpage><lpage>618</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1038/clpt.1992.73</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 1587076?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">1587076</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR30" publication-type="journal">Weintraub M, Sundaresan PR, Schuster B, Averbuch M, Stein EC, Byrne L. Long-term weight control study. V (weeks 190 to 210). Follow-up of participants after cessation of medication. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 1992;51(5):615&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">1587076</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR31"><label>31.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR31" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Peng</surname><given-names>PJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Ho</surname><given-names>PS</given-names></name><name><surname>Tsai</surname><given-names>CK</given-names></name><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>SY</given-names></name><name><surname>Liang</surname><given-names>CS</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>A pilot study of randomized, head-to-head of metformin versus topiramate in obese people with schizophrenia</article-title><source>Clin Neuropharmacol</source><year>2016</year><volume>39</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>306</fpage><lpage>310</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1097/WNF.0000000000000188</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 27764050?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27764050</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR31" publication-type="journal">Peng PJ, Ho PS, Tsai CK, Huang SY, Liang CS. A pilot study of randomized, head-to-head of metformin versus topiramate in obese people with schizophrenia. Clin Neuropharmacol. 2016;39(6):306&#x02013;10.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27764050</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR32"><label>32.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR32" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Hays</surname><given-names>JT</given-names></name><name><surname>Hurt</surname><given-names>RD</given-names></name><name><surname>Rigotti</surname><given-names>NA</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Sustained-release bupropion for pharmacologic relapse prevention after smoking cessation. a randomized, controlled trial</article-title><source>Ann Intern Med.</source><year>2001</year><volume>135</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>423</fpage><lpage>433</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.7326/0003-4819-135-6-200109180-00011</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 11560455?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">11560455</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR32" publication-type="journal">Hays JT, Hurt RD, Rigotti NA, et al. Sustained-release bupropion for pharmacologic relapse prevention after smoking cessation. a randomized, controlled trial. Ann Intern Med. 2001;135(6):423&#x02013;33.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">11560455</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR33"><label>33.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR33" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sj&#x000f6;str&#x000f6;m</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Narbro</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Sj&#x000f6;str&#x000f6;m</surname><given-names>CD</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Effects of bariatric surgery on mortality in Swedish obese subjects</article-title><source>N Engl J Med</source><year>2007</year><volume>357</volume><issue>8</issue><fpage>741</fpage><lpage>752</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1056/NEJMoa066254</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 17715408?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17715408</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR33" publication-type="journal">Sj&#x000f6;str&#x000f6;m L, Narbro K, Sj&#x000f6;str&#x000f6;m CD, et al. Effects of bariatric surgery on mortality in Swedish obese subjects. N Engl J Med. 2007;357(8):741&#x02013;52.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17715408</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR34"><label>34.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR34" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Hartmann-Boyce</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Theodoulou</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Oke</surname><given-names>JL</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association between characteristics of behavioural weight loss programmes and weight change after programme end: systematic review and meta-analysis</article-title><source>BMJ.</source><year>2021</year><volume>374</volume><fpage>n1840</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1136/bmj.n1840</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 34404631?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34404631</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR34" publication-type="journal">Hartmann-Boyce J, Theodoulou A, Oke JL, et al. Association between characteristics of behavioural weight loss programmes and weight change after programme end: systematic review and meta-analysis. BMJ. 2021;374:n1840.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34404631</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR35"><label>35.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR35" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Flore</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Preti</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Carta</surname><given-names>MG</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Weight maintenance after dietary weight loss: systematic review and meta-analysis on the effectiveness of behavioural intensive intervention</article-title><source>Nutrients.</source><year>2022</year><volume>14</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>1259</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.3390/nu14061259</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 35334917?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35334917</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR35" publication-type="journal">Flore G, Preti A, Carta MG, et al. Weight maintenance after dietary weight loss: systematic review and meta-analysis on the effectiveness of behavioural intensive intervention. Nutrients. 2022;14(6):1259.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35334917</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR36"><label>36.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR36" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Purcell</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Sumithran</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Prendergast</surname><given-names>LA</given-names></name><name><surname>Bouniu</surname><given-names>CJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Delbridge</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Proietto</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The effect of rate of weight loss on long-term weight management: a randomised controlled trial</article-title><source>Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol</source><year>2014</year><volume>2</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>954</fpage><lpage>962</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/S2213-8587(14)70200-1</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 25459211?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25459211</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR36" publication-type="journal">Purcell K, Sumithran P, Prendergast LA, Bouniu CJ, Delbridge E, Proietto J. The effect of rate of weight loss on long-term weight management: a randomised controlled trial. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol. 2014;2(12):954&#x02013;62.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25459211</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR37"><label>37.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR37" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Turicchi</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>O'Driscoll</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Finlayson</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Beaulieu</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Deighton</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Stubbs</surname><given-names>RJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Associations between the rate, amount, and composition of weight loss as predictors of spontaneous weight regain in adults achieving clinically significant weight loss: a systematic review and meta-regression</article-title><source>Obes Rev</source><year>2019</year><volume>20</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>935</fpage><lpage>946</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1111/obr.12849</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 30925026?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30925026</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR37" publication-type="journal">Turicchi J, O&#x02019;Driscoll R, Finlayson G, Beaulieu K, Deighton K, Stubbs RJ. Associations between the rate, amount, and composition of weight loss as predictors of spontaneous weight regain in adults achieving clinically significant weight loss: a systematic review and meta-regression. Obes Rev. 2019;20(7):935&#x02013;46.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30925026</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR38"><label>38.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR38" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Elfhag</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>R&#x000f6;ssner</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Who succeeds in maintaining weight loss? A conceptual review of factors associated with weight loss maintenance and weight regain</article-title><source>Obes Rev</source><year>2005</year><volume>6</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>67</fpage><lpage>85</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1111/j.1467-789X.2005.00170.x</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 15655039?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15655039</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR38" publication-type="journal">Elfhag K, R&#x000f6;ssner S. Who succeeds in maintaining weight loss? A conceptual review of factors associated with weight loss maintenance and weight regain. Obes Rev. 2005;6(1):67&#x02013;85.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15655039</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR39"><label>39.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR39" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Foster</surname><given-names>GD</given-names></name><name><surname>Wadden</surname><given-names>TA</given-names></name><name><surname>Vogt</surname><given-names>RA</given-names></name><name><surname>Brewer</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>What is a reasonable weight loss? Patients&#x02019; expectations and evaluations of obesity treatment outcomes</article-title><source>J Consult Clin Psychol</source><year>1997</year><volume>65</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>79</fpage><lpage>85</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1037/0022-006X.65.1.79</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 9103737?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">9103737</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR39" publication-type="journal">Foster GD, Wadden TA, Vogt RA, Brewer G. What is a reasonable weight loss? Patients&#x02019; expectations and evaluations of obesity treatment outcomes. J Consult Clin Psychol. 1997;65(1):79&#x02013;85.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">9103737</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR40"><label>40.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR40" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sbrocco</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Nedegaard</surname><given-names>RC</given-names></name><name><surname>Stone</surname><given-names>JM</given-names></name><name><surname>Lewis</surname><given-names>EL</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Behavioral choice treatment promotes continuing weight loss: preliminary results of a cognitive-behavioral decision-based treatment for obesity</article-title><source>J Consult Clin Psychol</source><year>1999</year><volume>67</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>260</fpage><lpage>266</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1037/0022-006X.67.2.260</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 10224737?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">10224737</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR40" publication-type="journal">Sbrocco T, Nedegaard RC, Stone JM, Lewis EL. Behavioral choice treatment promotes continuing weight loss: preliminary results of a cognitive-behavioral decision-based treatment for obesity. J Consult Clin Psychol. 1999;67(2):260&#x02013;6.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">10224737</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR41"><label>41.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR41" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>van Baak</surname><given-names>MA</given-names></name><name><surname>Mariman</surname><given-names>ECM</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Obesity-induced and weight-loss-induced physiological factors affecting weight regain</article-title><source>Nat Rev Endocrinol</source><year>2023</year><volume>19</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>655</fpage><lpage>670</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1038/s41574-023-00887-4</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 37696920?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37696920</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR41" publication-type="journal">van Baak MA, Mariman ECM. Obesity-induced and weight-loss-induced physiological factors affecting weight regain. Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2023;19(11):655&#x02013;70.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37696920</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR42"><label>42.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR42" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>van Can</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Sloth</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Jensen</surname><given-names>CB</given-names></name><name><surname>Flint</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Blaak</surname><given-names>EE</given-names></name><name><surname>Saris</surname><given-names>WH</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Effects of the once-daily GLP-1 analog liraglutide on gastric emptying, glycemic parameters, appetite and energy metabolism in obese, non-diabetic adults</article-title><source>Int J Obes (Lond)</source><year>2014</year><volume>38</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>784</fpage><lpage>793</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1038/ijo.2013.162</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 23999198?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23999198</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR42" publication-type="journal">van Can J, Sloth B, Jensen CB, Flint A, Blaak EE, Saris WH. Effects of the once-daily GLP-1 analog liraglutide on gastric emptying, glycemic parameters, appetite and energy metabolism in obese, non-diabetic adults. Int J Obes (Lond). 2014;38(6):784&#x02013;93.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23999198</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR43"><label>43.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR43" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Halawi</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Khemani</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Eckert</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Effects of liraglutide on weight, satiation, and gastric functions in obesity: a randomised, placebo-controlled pilot trial</article-title><source>Lancet Gastroenterol Hepatol</source><year>2017</year><volume>2</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>890</fpage><lpage>899</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/S2468-1253(17)30285-6</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 28958851?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28958851</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR43" publication-type="journal">Halawi H, Khemani D, Eckert D, et al. Effects of liraglutide on weight, satiation, and gastric functions in obesity: a randomised, placebo-controlled pilot trial. Lancet Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017;2(12):890&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28958851</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR44"><label>44.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR44" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Yu</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Funcke</surname><given-names>JB</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The GIP receptor activates futile calcium cycling in white adipose tissue to increase energy expenditure and drive weight loss in mice</article-title><source>Cell Metab.</source><year>2025</year><volume>37</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>187</fpage><lpage>204.e7</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.cmet.2024.11.003</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 39642881?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39642881</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR44" publication-type="journal">Yu X, Chen S, Funcke JB, et al. The GIP receptor activates futile calcium cycling in white adipose tissue to increase energy expenditure and drive weight loss in mice. Cell Metab. 2025;37(1):187-204.e7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39642881</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR45"><label>45.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR45" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Aronne</surname><given-names>LJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Sattar</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Horn</surname><given-names>DB</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Continued treatment with tirzepatide for maintenance of weight reduction in adults with obesity: the SURMOUNT-4 randomized clinical trial</article-title><source>JAMA</source><year>2024</year><volume>331</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>38</fpage><lpage>48</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1001/jama.2023.24945</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 38078870?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38078870</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR45" publication-type="journal">Aronne LJ, Sattar N, Horn DB, et al. Continued treatment with tirzepatide for maintenance of weight reduction in adults with obesity: the SURMOUNT-4 randomized clinical trial. JAMA. 2024;331(1):38&#x02013;48.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38078870</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR46"><label>46.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR46" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Stelmach-Mardas</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Mardas</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Walkowiak</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Boeing</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Long-term weight status in regainers after weight loss by lifestyle intervention: status and challenges</article-title><source>Proc Nutr Soc</source><year>2014</year><volume>73</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>509</fpage><lpage>518</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1017/S0029665114000718</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 25192545?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25192545</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR46" publication-type="journal">Stelmach-Mardas M, Mardas M, Walkowiak J, Boeing H. Long-term weight status in regainers after weight loss by lifestyle intervention: status and challenges. Proc Nutr Soc. 2014;73(4):509&#x02013;18.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25192545</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR47"><label>47.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR47" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Tam</surname><given-names>CS</given-names></name><name><surname>Rigas</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Heilbronn</surname><given-names>LK</given-names></name><name><surname>Matisan</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Probst</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Talbot</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Energy adaptations persist 2 years after sleeve gastrectomy and gastric bypass</article-title><source>Obes Surg</source><year>2016</year><volume>26</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>459</fpage><lpage>463</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1007/s11695-015-1972-4</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 26637359?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26637359</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR47" publication-type="journal">Tam CS, Rigas G, Heilbronn LK, Matisan T, Probst Y, Talbot M. Energy adaptations persist 2 years after sleeve gastrectomy and gastric bypass. Obes Surg. 2016;26(2):459&#x02013;63.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26637359</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR48"><label>48.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR48" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Greenway</surname><given-names>FL</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Physiological adaptations to weight loss and factors favouring weight regain</article-title><source>Int J Obes (Lond)</source><year>2015</year><volume>39</volume><issue>8</issue><fpage>1188</fpage><lpage>1196</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1038/ijo.2015.59</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 25896063?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25896063</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR48" publication-type="journal">Greenway FL. Physiological adaptations to weight loss and factors favouring weight regain. Int J Obes (Lond). 2015;39(8):1188&#x02013;96.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25896063</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR49"><label>49.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR49" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Field</surname><given-names>AE</given-names></name><name><surname>Byers</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Hunter</surname><given-names>DJ</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Weight cycling, weight gain, and risk of hypertension in women</article-title><source>Am J Epidemiol</source><year>1999</year><volume>150</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>573</fpage><lpage>579</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a010055</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 10489996?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">10489996</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR49" publication-type="journal">Field AE, Byers T, Hunter DJ, et al. Weight cycling, weight gain, and risk of hypertension in women. Am J Epidemiol. 1999;150(6):573&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">10489996</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR50"><label>50.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR50" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bosy-Westphal</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Schautz</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Lagerpusch</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Effect of weight loss and regain on adipose tissue distribution, composition of lean mass and resting energy expenditure in young overweight and obese adults</article-title><source>Int J Obes (Lond)</source><year>2013</year><volume>37</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>1371</fpage><lpage>1377</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1038/ijo.2013.1</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 23381557?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23381557</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR50" publication-type="journal">Bosy-Westphal A, Schautz B, Lagerpusch M, et al. Effect of weight loss and regain on adipose tissue distribution, composition of lean mass and resting energy expenditure in young overweight and obese adults. Int J Obes (Lond). 2013;37(10):1371&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23381557</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR51"><label>51.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR51" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Peters</surname><given-names>ET</given-names></name><name><surname>Seidell</surname><given-names>JC</given-names></name><name><surname>Menotti</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Changes in body weight in relation to mortality in 6441 European middle-aged men: the Seven Countries Study</article-title><source>Int J Obes Relat Metab Disord</source><year>1995</year><volume>19</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>862</fpage><lpage>868</lpage><?supplied-pmid 8963353?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">8963353</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR51" publication-type="journal">Peters ET, Seidell JC, Menotti A, et al. Changes in body weight in relation to mortality in 6441 European middle-aged men: the Seven Countries Study. Int J Obes Relat Metab Disord. 1995;19(12):862&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">8963353</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR52"><label>52.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR52" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Steig</surname><given-names>AJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Jackman</surname><given-names>MR</given-names></name><name><surname>Giles</surname><given-names>ED</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Exercise reduces appetite and traffics excess nutrients away from energetically efficient pathways of lipid deposition during the early stages of weight regain</article-title><source>Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol</source><year>2011</year><volume>301</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>R656</fpage><lpage>R667</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1152/ajpregu.00212.2011</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 21715696?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21715696</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR52" publication-type="journal">Steig AJ, Jackman MR, Giles ED, et al. Exercise reduces appetite and traffics excess nutrients away from energetically efficient pathways of lipid deposition during the early stages of weight regain. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol. 2011;301(3):R656&#x02013;67.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21715696</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR53"><label>53.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR53" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Singh</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Stewart</surname><given-names>RAH</given-names></name><name><surname>Benatar</surname><given-names>JR</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Intensity and duration of lifestyle interventions for long-term weight loss and association with mortality: a meta-analysis of randomised trials</article-title><source>BMJ Open.</source><year>2019</year><volume>9</volume><issue>8</issue><fpage>e029966</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1136/bmjopen-2019-029966</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 31427335?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31427335</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR53" publication-type="journal">Singh N, Stewart RAH, Benatar JR. Intensity and duration of lifestyle interventions for long-term weight loss and association with mortality: a meta-analysis of randomised trials. BMJ Open. 2019;9(8):e029966.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31427335</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR54"><label>54.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR54" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>JY</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Optimal diet strategies for weight loss and weight loss maintenance</article-title><source>J Obes Metab Syndr</source><year>2021</year><volume>30</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>20</fpage><lpage>31</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.7570/jomes20065</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 33107442?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33107442</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR54" publication-type="journal">Kim JY. Optimal diet strategies for weight loss and weight loss maintenance. J Obes Metab Syndr. 2021;30(1):20&#x02013;31.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33107442</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref></ref-list></back></article>