# Do women need a change in dose of prescription drugs with onset of menopause? Time to find out.

<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//NLM//DTD JATS (Z39.96) Journal Archiving and Interchange DTD with MathML3 v1.3 20210610//EN" "JATS-archivearticle1-3-mathml3.dtd"> 
<article xmlns:ali="http://www.niso.org/schemas/ali/1.0/" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" article-type="letter" dtd-version="1.3"><?properties open_access?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierValue -//Springer-Verlag//DTD A++ V2.4//EN?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierType public?><?SourceDTD.DTDName A++V2.4.dtd?><?SourceDTD.Version 2.4?><?ConverterInfo.XSLTName springer2nlmx2.xsl?><?ConverterInfo.Version 1?><processing-meta base-tagset="archiving" mathml-version="3.0" table-model="xhtml" tagset-family="jats"><restricted-by>pmc</restricted-by></processing-meta><front><journal-meta><journal-id journal-id-type="nlm-ta">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-id journal-id-type="iso-abbrev">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-title-group><journal-title>BMC Medicine</journal-title></journal-title-group><issn pub-type="epub">1741-7015</issn><publisher><publisher-name>BioMed Central</publisher-name><publisher-loc>London</publisher-loc></publisher></journal-meta>
<article-meta><article-id pub-id-type="pmcid">12236021</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="pmid">40624672</article-id>
<article-id pub-id-type="publisher-id">4253</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12916-025-04253-1</article-id><article-categories><subj-group subj-group-type="heading"><subject>Comment</subject></subj-group></article-categories><title-group><article-title>Do women need a change in dose of prescription drugs with onset of menopause? Time to find out</article-title></title-group><contrib-group><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Sommer</surname><given-names>Iris E. C.</given-names></name><address><email>i.e.c.sommer@umcg.nl</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Brand</surname><given-names>Bodyl A.</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Zijp</surname><given-names>Tanja R.</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Mourits</surname><given-names>Marian J.E.</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Touw</surname><given-names>Daan J.</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><aff id="Aff1"><label>1</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/012p63287</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.4830.f</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 0407 1981</institution-id><institution>Center for Clinical Neuroscience and Cognition and Department of Psychiatry, University Medical Centre Groningen (UMCG), </institution><institution>University of Groningen (RUG), </institution></institution-wrap>Groningen, The Netherlands </aff><aff id="Aff2"><label>2</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/012p63287</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.4830.f</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 0407 1981</institution-id><institution>Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Pharmacology, University Medical Centre Groningen (UMCG), </institution><institution>University of Groningen (RUG), </institution></institution-wrap>Groningen, The Netherlands </aff><aff id="Aff3"><label>3</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/03cv38k47</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.4494.d</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0000 9558 4598</institution-id><institution>Department of Gynaecological Oncology, </institution><institution>Rijks Universiteit Groningen (RUG), University of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen (UMCG), </institution></institution-wrap>Groningen, The Netherlands </aff></contrib-group><pub-date pub-type="epub"><day>7</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="pmc-release"><day>7</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="collection"><year>2025</year></pub-date><volume>23</volume><elocation-id>411</elocation-id><history><date date-type="received"><day>24</day><month>7</month><year>2024</year></date><date date-type="accepted"><day>30</day><month>6</month><year>2025</year></date></history><permissions><copyright-statement>&#x000a9; The Author(s) 2025</copyright-statement><copyright-year>2025</copyright-year><license><ali:license_ref specific-use="textmining" content-type="ccbyncndlicense">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ali:license_ref><license-p><bold>Open Access</bold> This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed material. You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/">http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ext-link>.</license-p></license></permissions><kwd-group xml:lang="en"><title>Keywords</title><kwd>Menopause</kwd><kwd>Pharmacokinetics</kwd><kwd>Metabolism</kwd><kwd>Estrogen</kwd><kwd>Enzymatic activity</kwd></kwd-group><custom-meta-group><custom-meta><meta-name>issue-copyright-statement</meta-name><meta-value>&#x000a9; BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2025</meta-value></custom-meta></custom-meta-group></article-meta></front><body><sec id="Sec2"><title>Background</title><p id="Par14">Withthe onset of menopause, sex hormones drop to a fraction of premenopausal values. This decrease in hormones affects many processes involved in drug absorption, metabolism, and excretion. Estrogens reduce gastric acid production [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>], which can affect drug uptake. Estrogens affect plasma protein levels, changing the unbound fraction of drugs and act on&#x000a0;p-glycoprotein (P-gP), an important efflux transporter in the gut, liver, kidneys, and brain [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>]. Estrogens affect the activity of several cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes, most pronounced for CYP1A2, where metabolic activity can be reduced by some 50% [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>]. This CYP enzyme is important for the clearance of some 3% of commonly used drugs. Concentrations of drugs metabolized by CYP1A2 may drop significantly at menopause, due to higher enzyme activity, reducing bioavailability and efficacy. CYP3A4 is induced by estrogens [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>], and its activity decreases at menopause, which may lead to more side effects and even toxicity. CYP3A4 is responsible for the oxidation of over 50% of all drugs currently on the market and determines the elimination of a wide range of therapeutics. Phase II drug metabolism by uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) is also expected to change at menopause, as UGT activity depends on estrogens as well [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>]. UGT also&#x000a0;metabolizes many prescription drugs. Declining estrogens at menopause is expected to reduce elimination by UGT, causing higher drug concentrations and presumably more side effects. These hormone-dependent mechanisms involved in drug metabolism can work in opposite directions, with little net effect, but can also strengthen each other, in which case net effects on drug concentrations can be large [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec3"><title>Findings</title><p id="Par15">Literature search identified only very few studies investigating the effects of menopause on pharmacokinetics of different drugs. We here provide some examples to showcase potential effects of menopause.</p><p id="Par16">Clearance of alfentanil (a short-acting anesthetic) metabolized largely by CYP3A4, was studied in 21 women and found to be more than double as high at premenopausal age compared to menopausal age, with no such effect in age-matched men [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>]. Clearance of tirilazad, a neuroprotective steroid, metabolized by CYP3A4, was one third higher in 10 premenopausal women compared to 10 menopausal women [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>]. The same study showed a similar difference in the clearance of midazolam (a short acting tranquilizer), which is&#x000a0;considered a marker of CYP3A4 activity [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>]. Zijp et al. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>] analyzed the effect of menopausal status on metabolism of tacrolimus, an immunosuppressant metabolized by CYP3A4 in 818 patients. Metabolism in women of premenopausal age was 43% higher than in women of menopausal age, while there was a non-significantly (12%) higher metabolism in men of comparable age groups.</p><p id="Par17">Castberg et al. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>] analyzed age and sex effects in 7626 users of quetiapine, an antipsychotic, metabolized by CYP3A4. They found a sex-by-age interaction and showed that male and female serum concentrations are similar until age 50, after which women develop significantly higher values than men, inducing a 33% sex difference.</p><p id="Par18">Rosuvastatin, a competitive hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A inhibitor, partly metabolized by CYP2C9, was studied in 40 women [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>]. Three hours after administration of a single dose of 40&#x000a0;mg, more than fourfold higher plasma levels were found in premenopausal women, compared to menopausal women.</p><p id="Par19">Olanzapine, an antipsychotic drug metabolized by CYP1A2, was studied in 248 patients, finding a sex-by-age interaction, with higher blood levels in young women and lower blood levels in older women [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>]. While the dose-corrected concentration (C:D ratio) of olanzapine increased with age in men, it decreased in women; an effect that may be attributable to menopause. Finally, a study including over 3000 men and women using lamotrigine (an anti-epileptic drug metabolized by UGT) demonstrated a significant drop in clearance in women aged 51&#x02013;55 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>], but not in male peers, again suggesting interaction between menopausal status and pharmacokinetics.</p></sec><sec id="Sec4"><title>Discussion</title><p id="Par20">These examples suggest that exposure to different drugs can either increase or decrease at menopause and that changes can be clinically relevant. We found several different examples in which CYP3A4 substrates reached significantly higher levels at menopause. As metabolism by CYP3A4 is a relevant factor for over 50% of drugs, a change in pharmacokinetics and drug exposure after menopause may be rather common. In contrast, we found an example of a CYP1A2 substrate, where blood levels decreased at menopause, to be expected given the inhibiting effects of estrogens on this enzyme. While such changes are often attributed to increasing age, our findings suggest that menopausal status itself may contribute independently to altered drug metabolism. Although drug dosage is frequently adjusted when patients age, this is often assumed to reflect chronological aging with less attention given to the physiological changes associated with menopause. Distinguishing age-related effects from those driven by the hormonal transition of menopause is challenging but clinically important for accurate dosing and better&#x000a0;drug safety in women. Current prescribing guidelines do not account for menopausal status, which may contribute to a lack of awareness among clinicians when managing medication use in women of menopausal age.</p><p id="Par21">Our search alerted us to the paucity in studies investigating potential effects of menopause. Yet, the possibility that menopause can be an important factor in drug availability is relevant for doctors of all medical disciplines. We therefore plead for more research into this subject. Investigating potential effects of menopausal status on pharmacokinetics is doable and feasible. Menopausal status should be determined during consultation as part of clinical routine and also as part of observational studies and randomized controlled trials to allow cross-sectional comparisons. In longitudinal cohort studies, premenopausal and menopausal drug&#x000a0;concentrations should be examined to prospectively investigate menopausal effects. As such investigations take time, a rough estimate of the menopausal effect can already be obtained retrospectively by using data sets in large existing cohorts. Information on menopausal status can be estimated by comparing men and women of specific age groups; differentiation can be made between effects of aging (present in both sexes) or menopause (exclusively present in women). Mean menopausal age is 51 for Europe and 49 for the USA [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>]. Although interindividual variation is high, age can provide a rough approximation of menopausal status in larger samples.</p><p id="Par22">We here advocate a medicine-wide effort to evaluate the influence of menopause, as this information is important to optimize pharmacotherapy for women. Such an effort is excellent value-for-money, as it can improve efficacy and prevent side effects in a large group of consumers.</p></sec><sec id="Sec5"><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par23">We provided theoretical reasons to expect relevant changes in pharmacokinetics at menopause for many drugs. This expectation was supported by anecdotal evidence from literature. However, research into the menopausal effect on the safety and efficacy of drugs is very scarce and needs to be extended urgently, as for most drugs it is currently unclear if a dose adjustment at menopause is needed.</p></sec></body><back><glossary><title>Abbreviations</title><def-list><def-item><term>C:D ratio</term><def><p id="Par7">Dose-corrected concentration</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CYP</term><def><p id="Par8">Cytochrome P450</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CYP1A2</term><def><p id="Par9">Cytochrome P450 family 1 subfamily A member 2</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CYP3A4</term><def><p id="Par10">Cytochrome P450 family 3 subfamily A member 4</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CYP2C9</term><def><p id="Par11">Cytochrome P450 family 2 subfamily C member 9</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>P-gP</term><def><p id="Par12">P-glycoprotein</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>UGT</term><def><p id="Par13">Uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase</p></def></def-item></def-list></glossary><fn-group><fn><p><bold>Publisher&#x02019;s Note</bold></p><p>Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.</p></fn></fn-group><ack><title>Acknowledgements
</title><p>We would like to thank Dr. Shiral Gangadin and M.Sc Eline L. Bosch for their thoughtful comments. We would like to thank M.Sc. A.J. Boer for her help in preparing this manuscript.</p></ack><notes notes-type="author-contribution"><title>Authors&#x02019; contributions</title><p>IECS wrote the first version of the manuscript. BAB improved the text and provided data on clozapine. TZ improved the text and provided data on tacrolimus. MM improved the text and provided expertise regarding the menopausal transition. DT improved the text and provided expertise regarding pharmacokinetics.</p></notes><notes notes-type="funding-information"><title>Funding</title><p>Not applicable.</p></notes><notes notes-type="data-availability"><title>Data availability
</title><p>No datasets were generated or analysed during the current study.</p></notes><notes><title>Declarations</title><notes id="FPar1"><title>Ethics approval and consent to participate</title><p id="Par24">Not applicable.</p></notes><notes id="FPar2"><title>Consent for publication</title><p id="Par25">Not applicable.</p></notes><notes id="FPar3" notes-type="COI-statement"><title>Competing interests
</title><p id="Par26">The authors declare no competing interests.</p></notes></notes><ref-list id="Bib1"><title>References
</title><ref id="CR1"><label>1.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR1" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Madla</surname><given-names>CM</given-names></name><name><surname>Gavins</surname><given-names>FKH</given-names></name><name><surname>Merchant</surname><given-names>HA</given-names></name><name><surname>Orlu</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Murdan</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Basit</surname><given-names>AW</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Let's talk about sex: Differences in drug therapy in males and females</article-title><source>Adv Drug Deliv Rev</source><year>2021</year><volume>175</volume><fpage>113804</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.addr.2021.05.014</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 34015416?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34015416</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR1" publication-type="journal">Madla CM, Gavins FKH, Merchant HA, Orlu M, Murdan S, Basit AW. Let&#x02019;s talk about sex: Differences in drug therapy in males and females. Adv Drug Deliv Rev. 2021;175: 113804.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34015416</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR2"><label>2.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR2" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sommer</surname><given-names>IE</given-names></name><name><surname>Brand</surname><given-names>BA</given-names></name><name><surname>Stuijt</surname><given-names>CCM</given-names></name><name><surname>Touw</surname><given-names>DJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Sex differences need to be considered when treating women with psychotropic drugs</article-title><source>World Psychiatry.</source><year>2024</year><volume>23</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>151</fpage><lpage>152.12</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1002/wps.21155</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 38214636?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38214636</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR2" publication-type="journal">Sommer IE, Brand BA, Stuijt CCM, Touw DJ. Sex differences need to be considered when treating women with psychotropic drugs. World Psychiatry. 2024;23(1):151-152.12.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38214636</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR3"><label>3.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR3" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lemmens</surname><given-names>HJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Burm</surname><given-names>AG</given-names></name><name><surname>Hennis</surname><given-names>PJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Gladines</surname><given-names>MP</given-names></name><name><surname>Bovill</surname><given-names>JG</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Influence of age on the pharmacokinetics of alfentanil</article-title><source>Gender dependence Clin Pharmacokinet</source><year>1990</year><volume>19</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>416</fpage><lpage>422</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.2165/00003088-199019050-00005</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 2268988?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">2268988</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR3" publication-type="journal">Lemmens HJ, Burm AG, Hennis PJ, Gladines MP, Bovill JG. Influence of age on the pharmacokinetics of alfentanil. Gender dependence Clin Pharmacokinet. 1990;19(5):416&#x02013;22.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">2268988</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR4"><label>4.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR4" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Fleishaker</surname><given-names>JC</given-names></name><name><surname>Pearson</surname><given-names>LK</given-names></name><name><surname>Pearson</surname><given-names>PG</given-names></name><name><surname>Wienkers</surname><given-names>LC</given-names></name><name><surname>Hopkins</surname><given-names>NK</given-names></name><name><surname>Peters</surname><given-names>GR</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Hormonal effects on tirilazad clearance in women: assessment of the role of CYP3A</article-title><source>J Clin Pharmacol</source><year>1999</year><volume>39</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>260</fpage><lpage>267</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1177/009127009903900309</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 10073325?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">10073325</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR4" publication-type="journal">Fleishaker JC, Pearson LK, Pearson PG, Wienkers LC, Hopkins NK, Peters GR. Hormonal effects on tirilazad clearance in women: assessment of the role of CYP3A. J Clin Pharmacol. 1999;39(3):260&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">10073325</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR5"><label>5.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Zijp T. Optimising tacrolimus treatment in solid organ transplant recipients: Bioanalysis, clinical variability, and monitoring. [Thesis fully internal (DIV), University of Groningen]. University of Groningen.&#x000a0;2024. 10.33612/diss.1069757148.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR6"><label>6.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR6" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Castberg</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Westin</surname><given-names>AA</given-names></name><name><surname>Skogvoll</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Spigset</surname><given-names>O</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Effects of age and gender on the serum levels of clozapine, olanzapine, risperidone, and quetiapine</article-title><source>Acta Psychiatr Scand</source><year>2017</year><volume>136</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>455</fpage><lpage>464</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1111/acps.12794</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 28865402?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28865402</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR6" publication-type="journal">Castberg I, Westin AA, Skogvoll E, Spigset O. Effects of age and gender on the serum levels of clozapine, olanzapine, risperidone, and quetiapine. Acta Psychiatr Scand. 2017;136(5):455&#x02013;64.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28865402</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR7"><label>7.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR7" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Nazir</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Iqbal</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Nasir</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Impact of Menopause on Pharmacokinetics of Rosuvastatin Compared with Premenopausal Women</article-title><source>Eur J Drug Metab Pharmacokinet</source><year>2016</year><volume>41</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>505</fpage><lpage>509</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1007/s13318-015-0285-2</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 26099962?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26099962</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR7" publication-type="journal">Nazir S, Iqbal Z, Nasir F. Impact of Menopause on Pharmacokinetics of Rosuvastatin Compared with Premenopausal Women. Eur J Drug Metab Pharmacokinet. 2016;41(5):505&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26099962</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR8"><label>8.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR8" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ansermot</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Vathanarasa</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Ranjbar</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Gholam</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Crettol</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Vandenberghe</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Gamma</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Plessen</surname><given-names>KJ</given-names></name><name><surname>von Gunten</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Conus</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Eap</surname><given-names>CB</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Therapeutic Drug Monitoring of Olanzapine: Effects of Clinical Factors on Plasma Concentrations in Psychiatric Patients</article-title><source>Ther Drug Monit</source><year>2024</year><volume>46</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>828</fpage><lpage>836</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1097/FTD.0000000000001227</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 38833576?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38833576</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR8" publication-type="journal">Ansermot N, Vathanarasa H, Ranjbar S, Gholam M, Crettol S, Vandenberghe F, Gamma F, Plessen KJ, von Gunten A, Conus P, Eap CB. Therapeutic Drug Monitoring of Olanzapine: Effects of Clinical Factors on Plasma Concentrations in Psychiatric Patients. Ther Drug Monit. 2024;46(6):828&#x02013;36. 10.1097/FTD.0000000000001227.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38833576</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR9"><label>9.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR9" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Tomson</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Lukic</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Ohman</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Are lamotrigine kinetics altered in menopause? Observations from a drug monitoring database</article-title><source>Epilepsy Behav</source><year>2010</year><volume>19</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>86</fpage><lpage>88</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.yebeh.2010.06.047</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 20708977?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20708977</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR9" publication-type="journal">Tomson T, Lukic S, Ohman I. Are lamotrigine kinetics altered in menopause? Observations from a drug monitoring database. Epilepsy Behav. 2010Sep;19(1):86&#x02013;8. 10.1016/j.yebeh.2010.06.047.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20708977</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR10"><label>10.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR10" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Schoenaker</surname><given-names>DA</given-names></name><name><surname>Jackson</surname><given-names>CA</given-names></name><name><surname>Rowlands</surname><given-names>JV</given-names></name><name><surname>Mishra</surname><given-names>GD</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Socioeconomic position, lifestyle factors and age at natural menopause: a systematic review and meta-analyses of studies across six continents</article-title><source>Int J Epidemiol</source><year>2014</year><volume>43</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>1542</fpage><lpage>1562</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1093/ije/dyu094</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 24771324?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24771324</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR10" publication-type="journal">Schoenaker DA, Jackson CA, Rowlands JV, Mishra GD. Socioeconomic position, lifestyle factors and age at natural menopause: a systematic review and meta-analyses of studies across six continents. Int J Epidemiol. 2014;43(5):1542&#x02013;62.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24771324</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref></ref-list></back></article>