# Multi-dimensional sleep health and dementia risk: a prospective study in the UK Biobank.

<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//NLM//DTD JATS (Z39.96) Journal Archiving and Interchange DTD with MathML3 v1.3 20210610//EN" "JATS-archivearticle1-3-mathml3.dtd"> 
<article xmlns:ali="http://www.niso.org/schemas/ali/1.0/" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" article-type="research-article" dtd-version="1.3"><?properties open_access?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierValue -//Springer-Verlag//DTD A++ V2.4//EN?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierType public?><?SourceDTD.DTDName A++V2.4.dtd?><?SourceDTD.Version 2.4?><?ConverterInfo.XSLTName springer2nlmx2.xsl?><?ConverterInfo.Version 1?><processing-meta base-tagset="archiving" mathml-version="3.0" table-model="xhtml" tagset-family="jats"><restricted-by>pmc</restricted-by></processing-meta><front><journal-meta><journal-id journal-id-type="nlm-ta">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-id journal-id-type="iso-abbrev">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-title-group><journal-title>BMC Medicine</journal-title></journal-title-group><issn pub-type="epub">1741-7015</issn><publisher><publisher-name>BioMed Central</publisher-name><publisher-loc>London</publisher-loc></publisher></journal-meta>
<article-meta><article-id pub-id-type="pmcid">12235804</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="pmid">40624639</article-id>
<article-id pub-id-type="publisher-id">4251</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12916-025-04251-3</article-id><article-categories><subj-group subj-group-type="heading"><subject>Research</subject></subj-group></article-categories><title-group><article-title>Multi-dimensional sleep health and dementia risk: a prospective study in the UK Biobank</article-title></title-group><contrib-group><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>Tianyi</given-names></name><address><email>tianyi.huang@nih.gov</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Beydoun</surname><given-names>May A.</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Kianersi</surname><given-names>Sina</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Redline</surname><given-names>Susan</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Launer</surname><given-names>Lenore J.</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><aff id="Aff1"><label>1</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/049v75w11</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.419475.a</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0000 9372 4913</institution-id><institution>Laboratory of Epidemiology and Population Sciences, </institution><institution>Intramural Research Program, National Institute On Aging, </institution></institution-wrap>Baltimore, MD USA </aff><aff id="Aff2"><label>2</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/04b6nzv94</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.62560.37</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 0378 8294</institution-id><institution>Division of Sleep and Circadian Disorders, Department of Medicine, </institution><institution>Brigham and Women&#x02019;s Hospital, </institution></institution-wrap>Boston, MA USA </aff><aff id="Aff3"><label>3</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/03vek6s52</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.38142.3c</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">000000041936754X</institution-id><institution>Division of Sleep Medicine, </institution><institution>Harvard Medical School, </institution></institution-wrap>Boston, MA USA </aff></contrib-group><pub-date pub-type="epub"><day>7</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="pmc-release"><day>7</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="collection"><year>2025</year></pub-date><volume>23</volume><elocation-id>410</elocation-id><history><date date-type="received"><day>10</day><month>2</month><year>2025</year></date><date date-type="accepted"><day>30</day><month>6</month><year>2025</year></date></history><permissions><copyright-statement>&#x000a9; This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply 2025</copyright-statement><copyright-year>2025</copyright-year><license><ali:license_ref specific-use="textmining" content-type="ccbylicense">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/</ali:license_ref><license-p><bold>Open Access</bold> This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article's Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article's Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/">http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/</ext-link>.</license-p></license></permissions><abstract id="Abs1"><sec><title>Background</title><p id="Par6">The intricate interplay of various sleep characteristics may influence dementia risk through different pathogenic pathways. However, few studies have examined multi-dimensional sleep health in relation to dementia risk or explored potential etiologic heterogeneity by dementia subtypes.</p></sec><sec><title>Methods</title><p id="Par7">Our study included 313,248 UK Biobank participants aged&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;50 years who were dementia-free in 2006&#x02013;2010. Incident dementia was identified using validated algorithms through primary care, hospital admissions, or death records through 2022. Multi-dimensional sleep health was evaluated based on seven self-reported sleep-related factors and assessed in two ways: (1) using an a priori sleep health score (SHS) ranging from 0 to 7, with higher scores indicating healthier sleep, and (2) through data-driven sleep health patterns identified by latent class analysis. We used Cox proportional hazards models to estimate the associations between multi-dimensional sleep health and risk of all-cause dementia, vascular dementia (VaD), and Alzheimer&#x02019;s disease (AD).</p></sec><sec><title>Results</title><p id="Par8">There were 7458 incident all-cause dementia cases (1636 VaD, 3376 AD) after 4,165,352 person-years of follow-up. After adjusting for potential confounders, the hazard ratio (95% CI) comparing participants with SHS of 0&#x02013;2 (worst sleep) vs 6&#x02013;7 (best sleep) was 1.76 (1.52, 2.05) for all-cause dementia (<italic>p</italic>-trend&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.0001), 2.13 (1.61, 2.83) for VaD (<italic>p</italic>-trend&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.0001), and 1.55 (1.22, 1.97) for AD (<italic>p</italic>-trend&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.57). We identified six multi-dimensional sleep health patterns, including relatively healthy sleep, insomnia with short sleep duration, non-restorative sleep with evening chronotype, insomnia with non-restorative sleep, snoring with daytime sleepiness and napping, and severely disturbed sleep with multiple symptoms and daytime impairment. Compared with the healthy sleep pattern, all other five sleep patterns were significantly associated with 8&#x02013;85% higher all-cause dementia risk and 11&#x02013;148% higher VaD risk, whereas only the severely disturbed sleep pattern was associated with 56% higher AD risk (95% CI: 1.21, 2.01).</p></sec><sec><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par9">Poor multi-dimensional sleep health, either assessed by a simple SHS or characterized by sleep clusters, was associated with higher incident dementia risk. There is substantial heterogeneity in multi-dimensional sleep health patterns and their associations with different dementia outcomes. Understanding the specific sleep health profiles associated with dementia risk may&#x0202f;help to identify high-risk populations and inform more targeted interventions.</p></sec><sec><title>Supplementary information</title><p>The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12916-025-04251-3.</p></sec></abstract><kwd-group xml:lang="en"><title>Keywords</title><kwd>Alzheimer&#x02019;s disease</kwd><kwd>Dementia</kwd><kwd>Health promotion</kwd><kwd>Latent class analysis</kwd><kwd>Prevention</kwd><kwd>Prospective study</kwd><kwd>Sleep</kwd><kwd>Sleep health</kwd><kwd>Vascular dementia</kwd></kwd-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="FundRef">https://doi.org/10.13039/100000049</institution-id><institution>National Institute on Aging</institution></institution-wrap></funding-source><award-id>ZIAAG000530</award-id></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="FundRef">https://doi.org/10.13039/100000968</institution-id><institution>American Heart Association</institution></institution-wrap></funding-source><award-id>24POST1188091</award-id></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>National Institute on Aging (NIA)</institution></funding-source></award-group><open-access><p>Open access funding provided by the National Institutes of Health</p></open-access></funding-group><custom-meta-group><custom-meta><meta-name>issue-copyright-statement</meta-name><meta-value>&#x000a9; BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2025</meta-value></custom-meta></custom-meta-group></article-meta></front><body><sec id="Sec1"><title>Background</title><p id="Par18">A growing body of evidence supports the vital role of sleep health in older populations, demonstrating its positive impact on improving cognitive functions, mitigating dementia risk, and fostering overall healthy aging. Previous studies have linked sleep duration, sleep quality, and sleep-related traits (e.g., chronotype), along with sleep disorders and related sleep disturbances and daytime symptoms, to dementia risk [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>]. However, a major limitation of these studies is that sleep health factors have typically been examined individually in relation to dementia risk, overlooking the co-occurrence and potential interactions of multiple sleep phenotypes. A more holistic approach is needed to fully understand the complex relationship between sleep health and dementia risk.
</p><p id="Par19">The multi-dimensional sleep health framework is proposed to address the fact that individual sleep health factors are rarely present in isolation [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>]. Instead, certain sleep factors often cluster together, forming distinct sleep phenotypes with significant clinical implications [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>]. For example, insomnia is a highly heterogeneous disorder [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>]. Specifically, insomnia with objective short sleep duration is considered a more biologically severe phenotype associated with adverse cardiometabolic and neurocognitive outcomes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>]. Co-morbid insomnia and sleep apnea (COMISA) represents a stronger risk factor for diabetes and cardiovascular disease than either disorder alone, posing clinical challenges in co-managing both disorders [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>]. Further, insomnia may result from circadian misalignment, be secondary to co-morbid conditions (e.g., chronic pain), or occur episodically in response to stressful life events. Therefore, examining the association between a sleep health factor and dementia risk without considering other co-occurring sleep dimensions would fail to capture the underlying etiologic complexity and the true health impact of the sleep problems, potentially leading to misleading conclusions.</p><p id="Par20">There are established age and sex differences in sleep health. Sleep duration tends to decline with age [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>], insomnia symptoms are more prevalent in women [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>], and sleep apnea is more common in men [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>]. However, it remains inconclusive how age and sex may modify the associations between sleep health and dementia risk. As a potentially modifiable lifestyle factor, sleep health may interact with genetic susceptibility to exacerbate or mitigate dementia risk. Yet, these gene-sleep interactions have not been fully elucidated, especially in the context of multi-dimensional sleep health. In the present study, we aimed to derive sleep health patterns under the multi-dimensional framework and evaluate how different sleep health patterns may relate to incident dementia risk in the UK Biobank. Multi-dimensional sleep health was assessed using an a priori sleep health score (SHS) and through data-driven sleep health patterns based on seven self-reported factors. We hypothesized that a greater number of unhealthy sleep factors would be more strongly associated with an increased risk of dementia and that this association would vary across the distinct sleep health patterns identified.</p></sec><sec id="Sec2"><title>Methods</title><sec id="Sec3"><title>Study population</title><p id="Par21">The UK Biobank is a large-scale cohort study of over 500,000 UK adults aged 37&#x02013;73 years at recruitment that aims to improve the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of a wide range of diseases. At baseline (2006&#x02013;2010), participants completed comprehensive questionnaires (including sleep health), underwent physical measurements, and provided biological samples for biochemical assays and genotyping. Disease occurrence was prospectively identified from linked healthcare data. Our study focused on 384,940 participants aged&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;50 years at baseline. After excluding participants with missing or invalid information on any sleep health factors (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;71,531) or with prevalent dementia (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;161), 313,248 were included in the analysis.</p></sec><sec id="Sec4"><title>Sleep assessment</title><p id="Par22">Participants completed a touch-screen questionnaire that assessed their sleep health in seven important dimensions: (1) sleep duration, (2) insomnia symptoms, (3) non-restorative sleep, (4) snoring, (5) daytime sleepiness, (6) napping, and (7) chronotype. The assessment questions and the detailed categorization of responses are presented in Additional file 1: Table <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S1</xref>. Briefly, after excluding participants reporting&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;3 h or&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;14 h of sleep, we categorized sleep duration was short (&#x0003c;&#x02009;7 h), medium (7&#x02013;8 h), and long (&#x0003e;&#x02009;8 h) to allow potential nonlinear relationships with dementia outcomes. To reflect that chronotype is a gradient trait along a continuum (20), chronotype was categorized into morning (definitely a &#x0201c;morning&#x0201d; person), intermediate (more a &#x0201c;morning&#x0201d; than &#x0201c;evening&#x0201d; person, or more an &#x0201c;evening&#x0201d; than &#x0201c;morning&#x0201d; person), and evening (definitely an &#x0201c;evening&#x0201d; person). The remaining five factors were assessed as binary variables. As sleep disturbances are common in older populations, participants who reported &#x0201c;sometimes&#x0201d; experiencing insomnia, daytime sleepiness, or napping were combined with those who reported &#x0201c;never/rarely.&#x0201d; This categorization helped focus on more clinically relevant sleep patterns while minimizing potential misclassification from short-term, episodic sleep disturbances.</p><p id="Par23">The SHS was defined a priori, with 1 point assigned for meeting each of the seven criteria and 0 assigned otherwise: 7&#x02013;8 h of sleep duration, absence of frequent insomnia symptoms, daytime sleepiness, or napping, no self-reported snoring, restorative sleep, and an intermediate chronotype. The SHS ranged from 0 to 7, with higher scores indicating healthier sleep. Based on the distribution, the SHS was further categorized into four groups representing minimal&#x000a0;(6&#x02013;7), mild (5), moderate&#x000a0;(3&#x02013;4), and severe (0&#x02013;2) sleep disturbances.</p><p id="Par24">To evaluate the stability of baseline self-reported sleep measurements, we calculated the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) for SHS and Cohen&#x02019;s kappa for individual sleep factors among two subsets of participants. The first subset consisted of 12,010 participants who repeated the sleep assessment in 2009&#x02013;2013, and the second included 3318 participants who repeated the assessment in 2019&#x02013;2023. For the first group, the ICC for SHS (measured an average of 4.2 years apart) was 0.58, with Cohen&#x02019;s kappa ranging from 0.35 for sleepiness to 0.65 for snoring. In contrast, for the second group (with assessments 12.2 years apart), the ICC for SHS was 0.43, and kappa values ranged from 0.22 for sleepiness to 0.53 for snoring. Overall, self-reported sleep health remains modestly stable over time in older adults, even over a span of more than a decade.</p></sec><sec id="Sec5"><title>Dementia ascertainment</title><p id="Par25">Dementia cases were identified through linkage to primary care, hospital admissions, or death records using a validated algorithm based on the International Classification of Diseases 10th revision (ICD-10) codes (21). Self-reported history at baseline was incorporated to identify prevalent dementia. The outcomes of interest included incident all-cause dementia and its subtypes of Alzheimer&#x02019;s disease (AD) and vascular dementia (VaD) (Additional file 1: Table <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S2</xref>). In a prior validation study of 120 UK Biobank participants with&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;1 dementia codes from health records (including 63 with AD codes and 16 with VaD codes), this algorithm demonstrated a positive predicted value (PPV) of 82.5% for identifying all-cause dementia, with lower PPVs for AD (71.4%) and VaD (43.8%) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec6"><title>Statistical analysis</title><p id="Par26">We used line plots to show the age trends of each sleep health factor and the SHS, separately for men and women. We calculated means and standard deviations for continuous variables and percentages for categorical variables in the overall sample and across the SHS categories. Cox proportional hazards models were used to estimate the hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% CI for the associations between the SHS categories (SHS of 6&#x02013;7 as the reference) and incident dementia risk. To account for varying baseline hazards of dementia across different ages, we used age as the timescale in the Cox models. Each participant contributed person-time from the age at which they completed the baseline sleep assessment until the earliest age at which any of the following events occurred: dementia diagnosis, death, loss to follow-up, or the censoring date (December 31, 2022). We also estimated Kaplan&#x02013;Meier curves with age as the timescale accounting for left truncation and right censoring. No significant deviations from the proportional hazards assumption were detected based on the Schoenfeld residuals. We considered two primary multivariable models: model 1 adjusted for age in months, sex, race and ethnicity, Townsend deprivation index, education in years, employment status, and family history of dementia, and model 2 further adjusted for smoking status, alcohol consumption, physical activity, and body mass index. As a sensitivity analysis, we additionally added to model 3 total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, HbA1c, and depression, which may be intermediate pathways linking sleep health to dementia development. All analyses were conducted for all-cause dementia as well as for VaD and AD separately. The linear trend was tested by modeling the SHS as a continuous variable.</p><p id="Par27">To address potential reverse causation, we excluded dementia cases diagnosed in the first 5 years of follow-up and repeated the primary analysis. We performed subgroup analyses to examine whether the associations of the SHS with risks of all-cause dementia and dementia subtypes differed by age (&#x02265;&#x02009;60,&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;60 years), sex (men, women), and the polygenic risk score (PRS) for AD (in tertiles). Statistical significance of the subgroup difference was assessed using a likelihood ratio test, comparing models with and without the multiplicative interaction term between the continuous SHS and the subgroup factor.</p><p id="Par28">Next, we used latent class analysis (LCA) to group participants into clusters that shared a similar sleep health pattern using the R package <italic>poLCA</italic> [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR21">21</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR22">22</xref>]. LCA is a data-driven approach that identifies unobserved subgroups based on observed response patterns and estimated group membership probabilities using the Expectation&#x02013;Maximization algorithm. Given the large sample size, we determined the optimal number of clusters based on interpretability and to prevent overfitting, ensuring that the smallest cluster contained&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;1% of the total sample. We also calculated the posterior predicted probability for each participant of belonging to the assigned cluster as a measure of model fit. The distribution of the sleep health factors within each cluster was visualized using a spider plot. We conducted a similar prospective analysis using Cox models to estimate dementia risk according to identified sleep health clusters, adjusted for covariates in model 2 as outlined above.</p><p id="Par29">We performed additional secondary analyses to gain deeper insight into the observed associations. First, to further explore the clinical relevance of the derived multi-dimensional sleep health patterns, we examined both cross-sectional and prospective associations of SHS and sleep health clusters with clinically diagnosed sleep disorders, as defined by ICD-10 code G47. Second, to facilitate comparison with previous studies (which did not restrict their analytical samples to those aged 50 years or older) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>], we also assessed the associations between individual sleep health risk factors and dementia risk using multivariable Cox models. Third, since poor sleep health may increase risk of premature death prior to dementia onset potentially leading to biased interpretations [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>], we conducted competing risks Cox analysis using the R package <italic>cmprsk</italic> to account for non-dementia-related mortality as a competing event [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>]. All analyses were performed using RStudio (version 4.4.0) on the UK Biobank Research Analysis Platform.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec7"><title>Results</title><p id="Par30">The mean age at baseline was 60.5 years (SD: 5.5), with 45.2% of participants being men and 96.0% identifying as white (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref>). Participants with poorer sleep health were more likely to be men, non-white, socioeconomically disadvantaged, less educated, and either unemployed or unable to work, compared with those with the best sleep health (SHS 6&#x02013;7 points). Lower SHS was associated with current/former smoking, reduced alcohol consumption, lower physical activity, higher BMI and HbA1c, lower total and HDL cholesterol, and greater prevalence of depression. Family history of dementia and PRS for AD did not differ appreciably across SHS categories.
<table-wrap id="Tab1"><label>Table 1</label><caption><p>Baseline characteristics across multi-dimensional sleep health score categories among participants aged 50&#x000a0;years or older without clinically diagnosed dementia in the UK Biobank (2006&#x02013;2010)</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left" rowspan="2"/><th align="left" rowspan="2">Overall</th><th align="left" colspan="4">Multi-dimensional sleep health score</th></tr><tr><th align="left">6&#x02013;7 (best sleep)</th><th align="left">5</th><th align="left">3&#x02013;4</th><th align="left">0&#x02013;2 (worst sleep)</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left"><italic>N</italic></td><td align="left">313,248</td><td align="left">158,057</td><td align="left">87,942</td><td align="left">63,068</td><td align="left">4181</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Age, years</td><td align="left">60.5 (5.5)</td><td align="left">60.6 (5.5)</td><td align="left">60.5 (5.4)</td><td align="left">60.4 (5.4)</td><td align="left">60.5 (5.5)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Men, %</td><td align="left">45.2</td><td align="left">44.0</td><td align="left">46.8</td><td align="left">45.5</td><td align="left">53.0</td></tr><tr><td align="left">White, %</td><td align="left">96.0</td><td align="left">96.7</td><td align="left">95.7</td><td align="left">94.9</td><td align="left">92.5</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Townsend deprivation index</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;1.5 (3.0)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;1.7 (2.8)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;1.5 (3.0)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;1.2 (3.1)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;0.3 (3.4)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Education, years</td><td align="left">14.6 (5.2)</td><td align="left">14.9 (5.1)</td><td align="left">14.4 (5.2)</td><td align="left">14.1 (5.3)</td><td align="left">13.4 (5.4)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Employment status</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Employed</td><td align="left">48.9</td><td align="left">49.7</td><td align="left">50.0</td><td align="left">46.7</td><td align="left">33.3</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Retired</td><td align="left">43.2</td><td align="left">44.1</td><td align="left">42.4</td><td align="left">42.1</td><td align="left">43.3</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Unemployed/unable to work</td><td align="left">7.8</td><td align="left">6.2</td><td align="left">7.6</td><td align="left">11.3</td><td align="left">23.4</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Family history of dementia, %</td><td align="left">13.8</td><td align="left">13.7</td><td align="left">13.7</td><td align="left">14.0</td><td align="left">13.5</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Smoking status, %</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Never</td><td align="left">52.6</td><td align="left">55.2</td><td align="left">51.4</td><td align="left">48.6</td><td align="left">41.0</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Current</td><td align="left">9.3</td><td align="left">8.0</td><td align="left">9.6</td><td align="left">11.7</td><td align="left">17.5</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Former</td><td align="left">38.0</td><td align="left">36.7</td><td align="left">39.0</td><td align="left">39.7</td><td align="left">41.6</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Alcohol drinking, %</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Never/special occasion only</td><td align="left">18.9</td><td align="left">16.9</td><td align="left">19.2</td><td align="left">22.8</td><td align="left">32.1</td></tr><tr><td align="left">1&#x02013;3 per month</td><td align="left">10.2</td><td align="left">10.1</td><td align="left">10.0</td><td align="left">10.8</td><td align="left">11.1</td></tr><tr><td align="left">1&#x02013;4 per week</td><td align="left">48.5</td><td align="left">50.6</td><td align="left">47.9</td><td align="left">44.6</td><td align="left">38.3</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Daily/almost daily</td><td align="left">22.3</td><td align="left">22.4</td><td align="left">22.9</td><td align="left">21.7</td><td align="left">18.4</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Physical activity, MET-hours/week</td><td align="left">44.4 (44.0)</td><td align="left">45.4 (43.3)</td><td align="left">44.4 (44.5)</td><td align="left">42.6 (45.4)</td><td align="left">33.9 (42.2)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Body mass index, kg/m<sup>2</sup></td><td align="left">27.5 (4.7)</td><td align="left">26.9 (4.3)</td><td align="left">27.7 (4.7)</td><td align="left">28.6 (5.1)</td><td align="left">30.7 (6.1)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Systolic blood pressure, mmHg</td><td align="left">140.4 (18.7)</td><td align="left">140.4 (18.8)</td><td align="left">140.6 (18.6)</td><td align="left">140.3 (18.5)</td><td align="left">139.7 (18.4)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Diastolic blood pressure, mmHg</td><td align="left">82.6 (10.0)</td><td align="left">82.3 (10.0)</td><td align="left">82.7 (10.0)</td><td align="left">82.9 (10.1)</td><td align="left">83.1 (10.4)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Total cholesterol, mg/dL</td><td align="left">222.9 (45.3)</td><td align="left">224.6 (44.4)</td><td align="left">222.3 (45.4)</td><td align="left">220.3 (46.6)</td><td align="left">211.9 (49.4)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">HDL cholesterol, mg/dL</td><td align="left">56.6 (15.1)</td><td align="left">57.7 (15.1)</td><td align="left">56.2 (14.9)</td><td align="left">54.9 (14.8)</td><td align="left">50.6 (13.9)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">HbA1c, mmol/mol</td><td align="left">36.7 (6.8)</td><td align="left">36.2 (6.1)</td><td align="left">36.8 (7.0)</td><td align="left">37.4 (7.6)</td><td align="left">39.9 (10.5)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Depression<sup>a</sup>, %</td><td align="left">36.9</td><td align="left">31.6</td><td align="left">37.8</td><td align="left">47.3</td><td align="left">63.2</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Polygenic risk score for AD</td><td align="left">0.05 (1.00)</td><td align="left">0.06 (1.00)</td><td align="left">0.05 (0.99)</td><td align="left">0.04 (1.00)</td><td align="left">0.03 (0.97)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Sleep health</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Sleep duration, %</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Short (&#x0003c;&#x02009;7&#x000a0;h)</td><td align="left">24.4</td><td align="left">6.6</td><td align="left">31.5</td><td align="left">56.9</td><td align="left">60.5</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Medium (7&#x02013;8&#x000a0;h)</td><td align="left">67.3</td><td align="left">90.1</td><td align="left">57.6</td><td align="left">27.5</td><td align="left">9.7</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Long (&#x0003e;&#x02009;8&#x000a0;h)</td><td align="left">8.3</td><td align="left">3.3</td><td align="left">10.8</td><td align="left">15.6</td><td align="left">29.8</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Insomnia symptoms, %</td><td align="left">29.8</td><td align="left">8.9</td><td align="left">37.2</td><td align="left">67.7</td><td align="left">88.5</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Non-restorative sleep, %</td><td align="left">15.3</td><td align="left">4.8</td><td align="left">17.2</td><td align="left">35.5</td><td align="left">68.6</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Snoring, %</td><td align="left">38.3</td><td align="left">21.9</td><td align="left">49.1</td><td align="left">61.6</td><td align="left">82.9</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Daytime sleepiness, %</td><td align="left">2.9</td><td align="left">0.3</td><td align="left">1.7</td><td align="left">8.0</td><td align="left">52.2</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Napping, %</td><td align="left">6.0</td><td align="left">1.2</td><td align="left">5.5</td><td align="left">15.4</td><td align="left">57.4</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Chronotype, %</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Morning</td><td align="left">28.5</td><td align="left">16.2</td><td align="left">37.9</td><td align="left">45.6</td><td align="left">39.6</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Intermediate</td><td align="left">63.4</td><td align="left">81.5</td><td align="left">53.1</td><td align="left">35.4</td><td align="left">19.3</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Evening</td><td align="left">8.0</td><td align="left">2.3</td><td align="left">9.0</td><td align="left">19.0</td><td align="left">41.1</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p><sup>a</sup>Based on a broad depression definition if one or more of the following was met: Patient Health Questionnaire-2 (PHQ-2) score&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;3 or self-reported clinical visits for depression</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p><sec id="Sec8"><title>Trends in multi-dimensional sleep health by age and sex</title><p id="Par31">We observed an age-related increase in self-reported morning chronotype and a decrease in evening chronotype, with similar patterns by sex (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>a). The overall prevalence of short and long sleep duration was similar between men and women. With increasing age, men showed a decline in short sleep and an increase in long sleep, whereas in women these prevalence estimates remained relatively stable. Insomnia symptoms and non-restorative sleep were consistently more prevalent in women than men across age groups. However, the prevalence of insomnia increased with age only in men, narrowing the sex difference in older groups. Both men and women exhibited a decline in non-restorative sleep with age. In contrast, the prevalence of snoring, daytime sleepiness, and napping was consistently higher in men than women, with men showing a more pronounced age-related increase in daytime sleepiness and napping. Snoring tended to decrease with aging in both sexes. Overall, the mean SHS was slightly higher in women than men, and the sex difference in SHS was somewhat enlarged with age (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>b).<fig id="Fig1"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;1</label><caption><p>Age trends of multi-dimensional sleep health in men (blue) and women (red) in the UK Biobank (2006&#x02013;2010). <bold>a</bold> Individual sleep health factors. <bold>b</bold> The sleep health score (SHS). Note that the y-axis for SHS is scaled from 5.3 to 5.5, although the full SHS scale ranges from 0 to 7</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4251_Fig1_HTML" id="MO1"/></fig></p></sec><sec id="Sec9"><title>Sleep health score and dementia risk</title><p id="Par32">After 4,165,352 person-years of follow-up, there were 7458 incident all-cause dementia cases (1636 VaD and 3376 AD; Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref> and Additional file 1: Fig. <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S1</xref>). Compared with participants with SHS of 6&#x02013;7 (best sleep health), the HR (95% CI) for all-cause dementia were 1.07 (1.01, 1.13) for SHS of 5, 1.18 (1.11, 1.25) for 3&#x02013;4, and 1.76 (1.52, 2.05) for 0&#x02013;2 (worst sleep health), after accounting for sociodemographic factors, family history of dementia, and lifestyle factors (<italic>p</italic> for trend&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.0001). We observed stronger associations for VaD. The comparable HR (95% CI) across SHS categories was 1.00 (reference), 1.17 (1.04, 1.32), 1.36 (1.20, 1.54), and 2.13 (1.61, 2.83), respectively (<italic>p</italic> for trend&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.0001). By contrast, increased AD risk was only observed comparing participants with SHS of 0&#x02013;2 versus 6&#x02013;7 (HR: 1.55; 95% CI: 1.22, 1.97). No increased risk was found in participants with SHS of 5 or 3&#x02013;4 (<italic>p</italic> for trend&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.57). Further adjustment for cardiovascular risk factors and depression modestly attenuated the associations but did not alter these results substantially.
<table-wrap id="Tab2"><label>Table 2</label><caption><p>Associations of the multi-dimensional sleep health score with risk of all-cause dementia, vascular dementia, and Alzheimer&#x02019;s disease among participants aged 50&#x000a0;years or older in the UK Biobank (2006&#x02013;2022)</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left" rowspan="2"/><th align="left" colspan="4">Multi-dimensional sleep health score</th><th align="left" rowspan="2"><italic>p</italic> for trend</th></tr><tr><th align="left">6&#x02013;7 (best sleep)</th><th align="left">5</th><th align="left">3&#x02013;4</th><th align="left">0&#x02013;2 (worst sleep)</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">All-cause dementia</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Cases</td><td align="left">3463</td><td align="left">2113</td><td align="left">1697</td><td align="left">185</td><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Person-years</td><td align="left">2,112,240</td><td align="left">1,168,838</td><td align="left">831,418</td><td align="left">52,856</td><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Rate per 1000 person-years</td><td align="left">16.4</td><td align="left">18.1</td><td align="left">20.4</td><td align="left">35.0</td><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Model 1<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">1.00 (ref)</td><td align="left">1.08 (1.02, 1.14)</td><td align="left">1.21 (1.14, 1.28)</td><td align="left">1.88 (1.62, 2.18)</td><td char="." align="char">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.0001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Model 2<sup>b</sup></td><td align="left">1.00 (ref)</td><td align="left">1.07 (1.01, 1.13)</td><td align="left">1.18 (1.11, 1.25)</td><td align="left">1.76 (1.52, 2.05)</td><td char="." align="char">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.0001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Model 3<sup>c</sup></td><td align="left">1.00 (ref)</td><td align="left">1.06 (0.99, 1.12)</td><td align="left">1.12 (1.04, 1.20)</td><td align="left">1.60 (1.33, 1.91)</td><td char="." align="char">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.0001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Vascular dementia</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Cases</td><td align="left">685</td><td align="left">478</td><td align="left">419</td><td align="left">54</td><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Person-years</td><td align="left">2,112,240</td><td align="left">1,168,838</td><td align="left">831,418</td><td align="left">52,856</td><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Rate per 1000 person-years</td><td align="left">3.2</td><td align="left">4.1</td><td align="left">5.0</td><td align="left">10.2</td><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Model 1<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">1.00 (ref)</td><td align="left">1.21 (1.08, 1.37)</td><td align="left">1.47 (1.30, 1.66)</td><td align="left">2.55 (1.93, 3.37)</td><td char="." align="char">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.0001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Model 2<sup>b</sup></td><td align="left">1.00 (ref)</td><td align="left">1.17 (1.04, 1.32)</td><td align="left">1.36 (1.20, 1.54)</td><td align="left">2.13 (1.61, 2.83)</td><td char="." align="char">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.0001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Model 3<sup>c</sup></td><td align="left">1.00 (ref)</td><td align="left">1.13 (0.99, 1.30)</td><td align="left">1.29 (1.12, 1.50)</td><td align="left">1.72 (1.22, 2.45)</td><td char="." align="char">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.0001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Alzheimer&#x02019;s disease</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Cases</td><td align="left">1717</td><td align="left">913</td><td align="left">674</td><td align="left">72</td><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Person-years</td><td align="left">2,112,240</td><td align="left">1,168,838</td><td align="left">831,418</td><td align="left">52,856</td><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Rate per 1000 person-years</td><td align="left">8.1</td><td align="left">7.8</td><td align="left">8.1</td><td align="left">13.6</td><td char="." align="char"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Model 1<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">1.00 (ref)</td><td align="left">0.95 (0.88, 1.03)</td><td align="left">0.98 (0.89, 1.07)</td><td align="left">1.55 (1.22, 1.96)</td><td char="." align="char">0.54</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Model 2<sup>b</sup></td><td align="left">1.00 (ref)</td><td align="left">0.95 (0.88, 1.03)</td><td align="left">0.98 (0.89, 1.07)</td><td align="left">1.55 (1.22, 1.97)</td><td char="." align="char">0.57</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Model 3<sup>c</sup></td><td align="left">1.00 (ref)</td><td align="left">0.94 (0.86, 1.03)</td><td align="left">0.91 (0.82, 1.01)</td><td align="left">1.42 (1.07, 1.90)</td><td char="." align="char">0.59</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p><sup>a</sup>Adjusted for age in months, sex, race/ethnicity, Townsend deprivation index, education in years, employment status, and family history of dementia</p><p><sup>b</sup>Model 1&#x02009;+&#x02009;adjusted for smoking status, alcohol consumption, physical activity, and body mass index</p><p><sup>c</sup>Model 2&#x02009;+&#x02009;adjusted for total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, HbA1c, and depression</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p><p id="Par33">The association patterns remained largely the same after we excluded dementia cases diagnosed within the first 5 years of follow-up (Additional file 1: Table <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S3</xref>). Increased dementia risk associated with lower SHS was consistently observed across subgroups defined by age (Additional file 1: Table <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S4</xref>), sex (Additional file 1: Table <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S5</xref>), and PRS for AD (Additional file 1: Table <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S6</xref>). However, the associations were significantly stronger in participants&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;60 years versus&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;60 years (<italic>p</italic> for interaction&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05) and in participants with lower versus higher genetic susceptibility to AD (<italic>p</italic> for interaction&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001). While the association estimates were generally larger in women than in men, only the sex difference in the association between SHS and VaD risk reached statistical significance (<italic>p</italic> for interaction&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.03).</p></sec><sec id="Sec10"><title>Multi-dimensional sleep health patterns and dementia risk</title><p id="Par34">The LCA model identified six multi-dimensional sleep health patterns (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>):<list list-type="bullet"><list-item><p id="Par35">Sleep pattern 1 (<italic>N</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;209,918): relatively healthy sleep.</p></list-item><list-item><p id="Par36">Sleep pattern 2 (<italic>N</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;37,671): insomnia (80.8%) with short sleep duration (98.4%) and morning chronotype (51.6%).</p></list-item><list-item><p id="Par37">Sleep pattern 3 (<italic>N</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;33,112): non-restorative sleep (100%) with evening chronotype (26.0%).</p></list-item><list-item><p id="Par38">Sleep pattern 4 (<italic>N</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;15,031): insomnia (63.3%) with short sleep duration (99.9%), non-restorative sleep (82.6%), and evening chronotype (38.9%).</p></list-item><list-item><p id="Par39">Sleep pattern 5 (<italic>N</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;14,269): napping (94.2%) with snoring (46.9%), long sleep duration (23.8%), and daytime sleepiness (17.4%).</p></list-item><list-item><p id="Par40">Sleep pattern 6 (<italic>N</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;3247): severely disturbed sleep with multiple symptoms and daytime impairment.</p></list-item></list><fig id="Fig2"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;2</label><caption><p>Clusters of multi-dimensional sleep health patterns identified by the latent class analysis approach in the UK Biobank (2006&#x02013;2010)</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4251_Fig2_HTML" id="MO2"/></fig></p><p id="Par41">The average posterior probability was&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;0.7 for all six identified clusters (0.86, 0.73, 0.86, 0.93, 0.89, 0.81, respectively), suggesting high within-cluster reliability and excellent discrimination between clusters. The distributions of sociodemographic, lifestyle, and comorbid factors also differed across the six sleep health patterns (Additional file 1: Table <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S7</xref>).</p><p id="Par42">Compared with the relatively healthy sleep pattern, the other five sleep patterns were associated with significantly increased risk for all-cause dementia (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig3" ref-type="fig">3</xref>a and Additional file 1: Fig. <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S1</xref>). The multivariable-adjusted HR (95% CI) compared with sleep pattern 1 was 1.08 (1.01, 1.16) for pattern 2, 1.19 (1.10, 1.29) for pattern 3, 1.34 (1.20, 1.49) for pattern 4, 1.12 (1.02, 1.22) for pattern 5, and 1.85 (1.59, 2.16) for pattern 6. A similar pattern of association was observed for VaD, with consistently stronger association estimates compared to those for all-cause dementia (range of comparable HRs for VaD: 1.11&#x02013;2.48). However, only severely disturbed sleep was associated with increased AD risk. Compared with sleep pattern 1, sleep pattern 6 was associated with 56% higher AD risk (95% CI: 1.21, 2.01), whereas sleep patterns 2&#x02013;5 showed no association with AD risk.<fig id="Fig3"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;3</label><caption><p>Associations of multi-dimensional sleep health with risk for all-cause dementia, vascular dementia, and Alzheimer&#x02019;s disease among participants aged 50&#x000a0;years or older in the UK Biobank (2006&#x02013;2022). <bold>a</bold> Multi-dimensional sleep health patterns identified by the latent class analysis. The sample size (%) was 209,918 (67.0%) for sleep pattern 1, 37,617 (12.0%) for pattern 2, 33,112 (10.6%) for pattern 3, 15,031 (4.8%) for pattern 4, 14,269 (4.6%) for pattern 5, and 3247 (1.0%) for pattern 6. <bold>b</bold> Individual sleep health factors. For short and long sleep duration, the reference group was medium sleep duration. For evening and morning chronotype, the reference group was intermediate chronotype. All estimates were adjusted for age (in months), sex, race/ethnicity, Townsend deprivation index, education (in years), employment status, family history of dementia, smoking status, alcohol consumption, physical activity, and body mass index</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4251_Fig3_HTML" id="MO3"/></fig></p></sec><sec id="Sec11"><title>Secondary analyses</title><p id="Par43">SHS and sleep health clusters were strongly associated with clinically diagnosed sleep disorders, both at baseline and during follow-up (Additional file 1: Tables <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S8</xref> and <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S9</xref>). For example, compared with participants with SHS of 6&#x02013;7, those with SHS of 0&#x02013;2 had 341% higher odds (95% CI: 3.88, 4.99) for prevalent sleep disorders at baseline and 4.59-fold increased risk (95%: 4.11, 5.12) of developing clinically diagnosed sleep disorders over follow-up. In the secondary analysis evaluating individual sleep health factors (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig3" ref-type="fig">3</xref>b), daytime sleepiness, non-restorative sleep, napping, short/long sleep duration, and morning/evening chronotype were associated with 8&#x02013;30% higher all-cause dementia risk and 16&#x02013;45% higher VaD risk. The associations for AD were weaker and less consistent, and only daytime sleepiness, napping, and short/long sleep duration were linked to 8&#x02013;20% higher AD risk. Insomnia symptoms and snoring, when examined individually, were not associated with increased risk for either all-cause dementia or dementia subtypes. In the competing risks analysis, poor sleep health was significantly associated with increased risk of premature death prior to dementia onset (Additional file 1: Table <xref rid="MOESM1" ref-type="media">S10</xref>). However, accounting for these non-dementia-related deaths as competing events did not alter the associations of SHS or multi-dimensional sleep health patterns with all-cause dementia risk.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec12"><title>Discussion</title><p id="Par44">In this prospective study, multi-dimensional sleep health, either assessed by a simple SHS or characterized by sleep clusters, was associated with incident dementia risk after accounting for a wide range of covariates. SHS showed dose&#x02013;response relationships with risks of all-cause dementia and VaD, whereas only the lowest SHS was associated with an increased AD risk. Similarly, compared with the healthy sleep pattern, increased risks for all-cause dementia and VaD were observed for all other five identified sleep health patterns, and only the severely disturbed sleep pattern was associated with higher AD risk. Our findings highlight the importance of adopting a multi-dimensional approach to assessing sleep health, which revealed heterogenous associations with dementia outcomes.</p><p id="Par45">Experimental studies provide mechanistic insights into how sleep disturbances may accelerate neurodegenerative progression and dementia development. Healthy sleep may mitigate dementia pathology by strengthening existing neural connections, facilitating glymphatic clearance of waste products to reduce &#x003b2;-amyloid deposition, and supporting overall vascular health [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>]. Conversely, sleep disorders, such as insomnia and sleep apnea, may lead to sleep fragmentation and cerebral hypoxia, enhancing neuroinflammation and damaging brain regions responsible for cognitive functions [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR26">26</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR27">27</xref>]. Despite compelling experimental evidence, a recent Lancet Commission report does not include sleep health in the life-course model of 14 modifiable risk factors for dementia prevention, citing &#x0201c;not enough consistent evidence&#x0201d; from human studies [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR28">28</xref>].</p><p id="Par46">One possible reason for the lack of consistent evidence in previous studies is the predominant focus on individual sleep dimensions without considering the complex relationships among different sleep domains and the heterogeneity in sleep health phenotypes. As supported by our SHS analysis, a greater number of unhealthy sleep factors was associated with higher dementia risk in a dose&#x02013;response fashion. While many unhealthy sleep factors tend to co-occur, the degree of clustering can vary substantially based on age, sex, and other characteristics of the study sample. Therefore, examining individual sleep health factors without accounting for other sleep-related variables may lead to considerable variations in the direction and strength of associations across studies.</p><p id="Par47">The importance of considering heterogeneity in sleep health phenotypes was further underscored by the LCA results. For example, we identified two sleep health patterns characterized by insomnia with short sleep duration (patterns 2 and 4). Although these patterns, based on self-reported short sleep duration, do not precisely align with the previously established insomnia with objective short sleep duration phenotype [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>], they exhibited distinct profiles regarding other sleep health factors. Pattern 2 was characterized by a high prevalence of morning chronotype without reported non-restorative sleep, whereas pattern 4 was characterized by a high prevalence of evening chronotype and the presence of non-restorative sleep. Further, these two patterns were associated with varying levels of dementia risk&#x02014;an 8% increased risk for pattern 2 and a 34% increased risk for pattern 4, compared with pattern 1. Coupled with the analysis of individual sleep factors which showed no overall association with insomnia symptoms, these findings suggest that insomnia symptoms were linked to increased dementia risk only when accompanied by other adverse sleep factors (e.g., short sleep duration, non-restorative sleep). Insomnia symptoms alone seemed to have little association with dementia risk. Similar heterogeneity was also observed for snoring. While snoring alone was not associated with dementia risk, it was linked to increased risk in the presence of daytime sleepiness or napping (pattern 5). Pattern 5 may represent the &#x0201c;excessively sleepy sleep apnea&#x0201d; phenotype, which has been associated with increased cardiovascular disease risk yet remains frequently underdiagnosed in clinical settings [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR29">29</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR31">31</xref>]. This may also explain the stronger associations observed for VaD, given the well-established role of sleep apnea in vascular pathologies implicated in dementia, including systemic inflammation, glucose dysregulation, and hypertension [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR32">32</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR35">35</xref>].</p><p id="Par48">Of note, a recent UK biobank study reported lower dementia risk comparing morning versus evening chronotypes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>]. The dichotomous classification of chronotype ignores the majority of individuals who fall into the intermediate category along the continuous spectrum [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR36">36</xref>]. Our results suggest that the lower dementia risk previously associated with morning chronotypes was actually driven by the intermediate type who reported &#x0201c;more morning than evening.&#x0201d; In fact, individuals who identified as &#x0201c;definitely morning&#x0201d; were at higher risk for dementia, particularly VaD, compared with those who reported being &#x0201c;more morning&#x0201d; or &#x0201c;more evening.&#x0201d; As the natural aging process is known to advance the circadian phase towards more morningness [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR37">37</xref>], these observations suggest that some morning chronotypes in older individuals may be a marker for accelerated aging, possibly contributing to neurodegeneration and dementia development. Future studies are needed to further subtype chronotype phenotypes to better understand the underlying genetic and biological differences.</p><p id="Par49">Our analysis suggests that both the SHS and the identified sleep health patterns were more strongly associated with risk of VaD than AD. The strong associations with VaD may be attributed to the well-established impact of sleep health on vascular risk factors [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR38">38</xref>], although adjusting for multiple cardiovascular risk factors only modestly attenuated the associations. However, this does not account for the weaker associations observed for an AD diagnosis, where there is often co-occurring vascular pathology [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR39">39</xref>]. It is possible that the one-time sleep assessment conducted on average in the seventh decade may not be the most relevant measure for AD, which typically involves decades of amyloid and tau aggregation before the clinical onset of symptoms. Additionally, as subtype information was not available for all incident dementia cases and subject to measurement error, both selection bias and potential misclassification may have influenced the observed associations.</p><p id="Par50">Self-reported sleep assessment is often the first step in clinical evaluations for risk assessment, diagnosis, and potential interventions. The heterogeneity in self-reported sleep health phenotypes, as shown in the current study, emphasizes the need for a multi-dimensional approach to assessing sleep health in order to more accurately identify inter-individual differences in susceptibility to sleep disturbances. For example, while sleep pattern 1 represented the healthiest sleep group with the lowest dementia risk, it still exhibited several unfavorable sleep health factors&#x02014;39.8% reported loud snoring, 17.5% reported insomnia symptoms, 10.5% reported short sleep duration, and 7.8% reported long sleep duration, but almost none reported non-restorative sleep, napping, or sleepiness. It is unclear what factors may account for this divergence between nighttime symptoms and daytime functioning. Possible explanations include effects of the chronicity or severity of the sleep problems, or other genetic, socioenvironmental, or biological factors that influence &#x0201c;resilience&#x0201d; or vulnerability to sleep disruption. Nevertheless, our data support the importance in considering the effects of sleep disruption on daytime function when assessing dementia risk factors.</p><p id="Par51">There are some issues that should be accounted for when interpreting the results. First, each sleep health dimension was assessed by a single-item question, which did not adequately reflect the severity, symptom heterogeneity, or chronicity of the underlying sleep disturbances. Also, these assessments did not encompass other important sleep health dimensions commonly measured by objective methods, such as sleep regularity [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR40">40</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR42">42</xref>], slow-wave sleep [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR43">43</xref>], and hypoxic burden [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR44">44</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR46">46</xref>], which have been linked to risks of cardiometabolic disease and dementia. Nonetheless, the multi-dimensional sleep health patterns derived from these brief assessments showed strong associations with both prevalent and incident clinically diagnosed sleep disorders. Second, our analysis relied on a single sleep assessment conducted in middle age. While this one-time assessment has demonstrated moderate stability over time, it did not fully capture sleep health in early life or changes over time, which should be investigated in future studies [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR47">47</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR48">48</xref>]. Additionally, the use of prevalent sleep health exposure has limited implications for interventions due to lack of information on the initiation and duration of sleep problems, and may potentially introduce selection bias and improper confounder adjustment [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR49">49</xref>]. Third, misclassification of dementia outcomes as indicated by the validation study [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>], as well as missing dementia diagnoses or subtype information due to incomplete linkage to primary care data, may introduce bias into the associations in either direction. Fourth, despite the many strengths of LCA, this data-driven approach may face challenges in reproducibility when applied to different populations, owing to its probabilistic nature and model complexity. However, several sleep health patterns identified by our LCA were consistent with established sleep phenotypes, supporting its generalizability. Fifth, our observational study does not provide evidence of causality. Several Mendelian randomization studies reported weak evidence for a causal role of sleep traits in dementia [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR50">50</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR52">52</xref>]. However, these Mendelian randomization studies, along with the associated genome-wide association studies, share a key limitation: they focus on a single sleep factor rather than considering a multi-dimensional sleep health pattern. Finally, the volunteer-based sampling of the UK Biobank, which overrepresents healthier white participants with higher socioeconomic status, may bias the observed associations and limit their extrapolation to the general UK population [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR53">53</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec13"><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par52">Poor sleep health assessed through multi-dimensional approaches was associated with higher dementia risk. Considerable heterogeneity exists with regard to sleep health patterns as well as their associations with dementia outcomes. Identifying the specific sleep health patterns linked to dementia risk could help pinpoint high-risk populations and guide the development of more targeted interventions.</p></sec><sec id="Sec14" sec-type="supplementary-material"><title>Supplementary information</title><p>
<supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM1"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4251_MOESM1_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Additional file 1: Tables S1&#x02013;S10 and Fig. S1. Table S1 Assessment of self-reported sleep health factors. Table S2 Data fields for algorithmically defined dementia outcomes in the UK Biobank. Table S3 Associations of the multi-dimensional sleep health score with dementia risk excluding cases diagnosed in the first 5&#x000a0;years of follow-up. Table S4 Associations of the multi-dimensional sleep health score with dementia risk by age. Table S5 Associations of the multi-dimensional sleep health score with dementia risk by sex. Table S6 Associations of the multi-dimensional sleep health score with dementia risk by the polygenic risk score for Alzheimer&#x02019;s disease. Table S7 Baseline characteristics by multi-dimensional sleep health patterns. Table S8 Cross-sectional associations of the multi-dimensional sleep health score and sleep health patterns with prevalent clinical sleep disorders. Table S9 Prospective associations of the multi-dimensional sleep health score and sleep health patterns with incident clinical sleep disorders. Table S10 Competing risks analysis. Fig. S1 Kaplan&#x02013;Meier curves.</p></caption></media></supplementary-material></p></sec></body><back><glossary><title>Abbreviations</title><def-list><def-item><term>AD</term><def><p id="Par10">Alzheimer&#x02019;s disease</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>HR</term><def><p id="Par11">Hazard ratio</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ICC</term><def><p id="Par12">Intraclass correlation coefficient</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ICD-10</term><def><p id="Par13">International Classification of Diseases 10th revision</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>LCA</term><def><p id="Par14">Latent class analysis</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PPV</term><def><p id="Par15">Positive predicted value</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>SHS</term><def><p id="Par16">Sleep health score</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>VaD</term><def><p id="Par17">Vascular dementia</p></def></def-item></def-list></glossary><fn-group><fn><p><bold>Publisher's Note</bold></p><p>Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.</p></fn></fn-group><ack><title>Acknowledgements</title><p>The authors extend their appreciation to the UK Biobank investigators, personnel, and participants, together with the staff and analysts of the UK Biobank access management system. This study was performed utilizing the UK Biobank Resource under Application 77963. The research employed data supplied by patients and gathered by the NHS during their treatment and assistance. This study utilized data provided by National Safe Haven as part of the Data and Connectivity National Core Study, overseen by Health Data Research UK in partnership with the Office for National Statistics and financed by UK Research and Innovation.</p></ack><notes notes-type="author-contribution"><title>Author Contribution
</title><p>TH: study conceptualization and design. MAB: data acquisition. TH and MAB: data analysis. TH: drafted the manuscript. All authors: interpreted the data, critically revised the manuscript, and approved the manuscript.</p></notes><notes notes-type="funding-information"><title>Funding</title><p>Open access funding provided by the National Institutes of Health National Institute on Aging, Intramural Research Program, Grant/Award Number: ZIAAG000530. American Heart Association, Grant/Award Number: 24POST1188091.</p></notes><notes notes-type="data-availability"><title>Data availability
</title><p>The datasets generated/and or analyzed in the current study will be made available for researchers who apply to use the UK Biobank data set by registering and applying at http://www.ukbiobank.ac.uk/register-apply.</p></notes><notes><title>Declarations</title><notes id="FPar1"><title>Ethics approval</title><p id="Par53">The research involving human subjects was evaluated and sanctioned by the UK Biobank, which has obtained authorization from multiple Institutional Review Boards, including the North West Multi-center Research Ethics Committee for the UK, the National Information Governance Board for Health and Social Care for England and Wales, and the Community Health Index Advisory Group for Scotland. </p></notes><notes id="FPar2"><title>Consent to participate</title><p id="Par54">All participants granted informed consent for the study via a touch-screen interface, which necessitated assent to each statement on the consent form and the participant&#x02019;s signature on an electronic pad.</p></notes><notes id="FPar3"><title>Consent for publication</title><p id="Par55">Not applicable.</p></notes><notes id="FPar4" notes-type="COI-statement"><title>Competing interests
</title><p id="Par56">The authors declare no competing interests.
</p></notes></notes><ref-list id="Bib1"><title>References</title><ref id="CR1"><label>1.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR1" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Shi</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>SJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Ma</surname><given-names>MY</given-names></name><name><surname>Bao</surname><given-names>YP</given-names></name><name><surname>Han</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>YM</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Sleep disturbances increase the risk of dementia: a systematic review and meta-analysis</article-title><source>Sleep Med Rev</source><year>2018</year><volume>40</volume><fpage>4</fpage><lpage>16</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.smrv.2017.06.010</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 28890168?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28890168</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR1" publication-type="journal">Shi L, Chen SJ, Ma MY, Bao YP, Han Y, Wang YM, et al. Sleep disturbances increase the risk of dementia: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Sleep Med Rev. 2018;40:4&#x02013;16.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28890168</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR2"><label>2.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR2" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Tan</surname><given-names>CC</given-names></name><name><surname>Zou</surname><given-names>JJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Cao</surname><given-names>XP</given-names></name><name><surname>Tan</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Sleep problems and risk of all-cause cognitive decline or dementia: an updated systematic review and meta-analysis</article-title><source>J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry</source><year>2020</year><volume>91</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>236</fpage><lpage>244</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1136/jnnp-2019-321896</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 31879285?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31879285</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR2" publication-type="journal">Xu W, Tan CC, Zou JJ, Cao XP, Tan L. Sleep problems and risk of all-cause cognitive decline or dementia: an updated systematic review and meta-analysis. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2020;91(3):236&#x02013;44.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31879285</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR3"><label>3.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR3" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Guay-Gagnon</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Vat</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Forget</surname><given-names>MF</given-names></name><name><surname>Tremblay-Gravel</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Ducharme</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Nguyen</surname><given-names>QD</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Sleep apnea and the risk of dementia: a systematic review and meta-analysis</article-title><source>J Sleep Res</source><year>2022</year><volume>31</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>e13589</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1111/jsr.13589</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 35366021?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35366021</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR3" publication-type="journal">Guay-Gagnon M, Vat S, Forget MF, Tremblay-Gravel M, Ducharme S, Nguyen QD, et al. Sleep apnea and the risk of dementia: a systematic review and meta-analysis. J Sleep Res. 2022;31(5): e13589.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35366021</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR4"><label>4.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR4" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Guo</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Harshfield</surname><given-names>EL</given-names></name><name><surname>Markus</surname><given-names>HS</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Sleep characteristics and risk of stroke and dementia: an observational and Mendelian randomization study</article-title><source>Neurology</source><year>2024</year><volume>102</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>e209141</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1212/WNL.0000000000209141</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 38350061?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38350061</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR4" publication-type="journal">Guo C, Harshfield EL, Markus HS. Sleep characteristics and risk of stroke and dementia: an observational and Mendelian randomization study. Neurology. 2024;102(5): e209141.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38350061</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR5"><label>5.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Gao Y, Andrews S, Daghlas I, Brenowitz WD, Raji CA, Yaffe K, et al. Snoring and risk of dementia: a prospective cohort and Mendelian randomization study. Sleep. 2024.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR6"><label>6.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR6" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>SY</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>YZ</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>YR</given-names></name><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>YY</given-names></name><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>BS</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Sleep, physical activity, sedentary behavior, and risk of incident dementia: a prospective cohort study of 431,924 UK Biobank participants</article-title><source>Mol Psychiatry</source><year>2022</year><volume>27</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>4343</fpage><lpage>4354</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1038/s41380-022-01655-y</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 35701596?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35701596</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR6" publication-type="journal">Huang SY, Li YZ, Zhang YR, Huang YY, Wu BS, Zhang W, et al. Sleep, physical activity, sedentary behavior, and risk of incident dementia: a prospective cohort study of 431,924 UK Biobank participants. Mol Psychiatry. 2022;27(10):4343&#x02013;54.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35701596</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR7"><label>7.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR7" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wong</surname><given-names>ATY</given-names></name><name><surname>Reeves</surname><given-names>GK</given-names></name><name><surname>Floud</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Total sleep duration and daytime napping in relation to dementia detection risk: results from the million women study</article-title><source>Alzheimers Dement</source><year>2023</year><volume>19</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>4978</fpage><lpage>4986</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1002/alz.13009</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 37083147?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37083147</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR7" publication-type="journal">Wong ATY, Reeves GK, Floud S. Total sleep duration and daytime napping in relation to dementia detection risk: results from the Million Women Study. Alzheimers Dement. 2023;19(11):4978&#x02013;86.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37083147</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR8"><label>8.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR8" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Himali</surname><given-names>JJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Baril</surname><given-names>AA</given-names></name><name><surname>Cavuoto</surname><given-names>MG</given-names></name><name><surname>Yiallourou</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Wiedner</surname><given-names>CD</given-names></name><name><surname>Himali</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association between slow-wave sleep loss and incident dementia</article-title><source>JAMA Neurol</source><year>2023</year><volume>80</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>1326</fpage><lpage>1333</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1001/jamaneurol.2023.3889</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 37902739?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37902739</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR8" publication-type="journal">Himali JJ, Baril AA, Cavuoto MG, Yiallourou S, Wiedner CD, Himali D, et al. Association between slow-wave sleep loss and incident dementia. JAMA Neurol. 2023;80(12):1326&#x02013;33.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37902739</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR9"><label>9.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR9" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Buysse</surname><given-names>DJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Sleep health: can we define it? Does it matter?</article-title><source>Sleep</source><year>2014</year><volume>37</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>9</fpage><lpage>17</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.5665/sleep.3298</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 24470692?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24470692</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR9" publication-type="journal">Buysse DJ. Sleep health: can we define it? Does it matter? Sleep. 2014;37(1):9&#x02013;17.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24470692</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR10"><label>10.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR10" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Chung</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Goodman</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Bertisch</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Redline</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Multidimensional sleep health in a diverse, aging adult cohort: concepts, advances, and implications for research and intervention</article-title><source>Sleep Health</source><year>2021</year><volume>7</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>699</fpage><lpage>707</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.sleh.2021.08.005</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 34642124?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34642124</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR10" publication-type="journal">Chung J, Goodman M, Huang T, Bertisch S, Redline S. Multidimensional sleep health in a diverse, aging adult cohort: concepts, advances, and implications for research and intervention. Sleep Health. 2021;7(6):699&#x02013;707.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34642124</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR11"><label>11.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR11" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Nyhuis</surname><given-names>CC</given-names></name><name><surname>Fernandez-Mendoza</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Insomnia nosology: a systematic review and critical appraisal of historical diagnostic categories and current phenotypes</article-title><source>J Sleep Res</source><year>2023</year><volume>32</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>e13910</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1111/jsr.13910</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 37122153?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37122153</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR11" publication-type="journal">Nyhuis CC, Fernandez-Mendoza J. Insomnia nosology: a systematic review and critical appraisal of historical diagnostic categories and current phenotypes. J Sleep Res. 2023;32(6): e13910.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37122153</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR12"><label>12.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Keenan BT, Kim J, Singh B, Bittencourt L, Chen NH, Cistulli PA, et al. Recognizable clinical subtypes of obstructive sleep apnea across international sleep centers: a cluster analysis. Sleep. 2018;41(3).</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR13"><label>13.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR13" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Vgontzas</surname><given-names>AN</given-names></name><name><surname>Fernandez-Mendoza</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Liao</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Bixler</surname><given-names>EO</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Insomnia with objective short sleep duration: the most biologically severe phenotype of the disorder</article-title><source>Sleep Med Rev</source><year>2013</year><volume>17</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>241</fpage><lpage>254</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.smrv.2012.09.005</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 23419741?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23419741</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR13" publication-type="journal">Vgontzas AN, Fernandez-Mendoza J, Liao D, Bixler EO. Insomnia with objective short sleep duration: the most biologically severe phenotype of the disorder. Sleep Med Rev. 2013;17(4):241&#x02013;54.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23419741</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR14"><label>14.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR14" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Fernandez-Mendoza</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The insomnia with short sleep duration phenotype: an update on it&#x02019;s importance for health and prevention</article-title><source>Curr Opin Psychiatry</source><year>2017</year><volume>30</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>56</fpage><lpage>63</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1097/YCO.0000000000000292</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 27764017?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27764017</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR14" publication-type="journal">Fernandez-Mendoza J. The insomnia with short sleep duration phenotype: an update on it&#x02019;s importance for health and prevention. Curr Opin Psychiatry. 2017;30(1):56&#x02013;63.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27764017</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR15"><label>15.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Sweetman A, Lack L, Bastien C. Co-morbid insomnia and sleep apnea (COMISA): prevalence, consequences, methodological considerations, and recent randomized controlled trials. Brain Sci. 2019;9(12).</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR16"><label>16.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR16" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Luyster</surname><given-names>FS</given-names></name><name><surname>Baniak</surname><given-names>LM</given-names></name><name><surname>Imes</surname><given-names>CC</given-names></name><name><surname>Jeon</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Morris</surname><given-names>JL</given-names></name><name><surname>Orbell</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association of comorbid obstructive sleep apnea and insomnia with risk of major adverse cardiovascular events in sleep medicine center patients</article-title><source>Sleep Health</source><year>2024</year><volume>10</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>335</fpage><lpage>341</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.sleh.2024.03.001</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 38704352?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38704352</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR16" publication-type="journal">Luyster FS, Baniak LM, Imes CC, Jeon B, Morris JL, Orbell S, et al. Association of comorbid obstructive sleep apnea and insomnia with risk of major adverse cardiovascular events in sleep medicine center patients. Sleep Health. 2024;10(3):335&#x02013;41.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38704352</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR17"><label>17.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Evans MA, Buysse DJ, Marsland AL, Wright AGC, Foust J, Carroll LW, et al. Meta-analysis of age and actigraphy-assessed sleep characteristics across the lifespan. Sleep. 2021;44(9).</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR18"><label>18.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR18" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Wing</surname><given-names>YK</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Sex differences in insomnia: a meta-analysis</article-title><source>Sleep</source><year>2006</year><volume>29</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>85</fpage><lpage>93</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1093/sleep/29.1.85</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 16453985?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">16453985</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR18" publication-type="journal">Zhang B, Wing YK. Sex differences in insomnia: a meta-analysis. Sleep. 2006;29(1):85&#x02013;93.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">16453985</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR19"><label>19.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Huang T, Lin BM, Markt SC, Stampfer MJ, Laden F, Hu FB, et al. Sex differences in the associations of obstructive sleep apnoea with epidemiological factors. Eur Respir J. 2018;51(3).</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR20"><label>20.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR20" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wilkinson</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Schnier</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Bush</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Rannikm&#x000e4;e</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Henshall</surname><given-names>DE</given-names></name><name><surname>Lerpiniere</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Identifying dementia outcomes in UK Biobank: a validation study of primary care, hospital admissions and mortality data</article-title><source>Eur J Epidemiol</source><year>2019</year><volume>34</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>557</fpage><lpage>565</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1007/s10654-019-00499-1</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 30806901?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30806901</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR20" publication-type="journal">Wilkinson T, Schnier C, Bush K, Rannikm&#x000e4;e K, Henshall DE, Lerpiniere C, et al. Identifying dementia outcomes in UK Biobank: a validation study of primary care, hospital admissions and mortality data. Eur J Epidemiol. 2019;34(6):557&#x02013;65.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30806901</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR21"><label>21.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR21" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Linzer</surname><given-names>DA</given-names></name><name><surname>Lewis</surname><given-names>JB</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>poLCA: an R package for polytomous variable latent class analysis</article-title><source>J Stat Softw</source><year>2011</year><volume>42</volume><fpage>1</fpage><lpage>29</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.18637/jss.v042.i10</pub-id></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR21" publication-type="journal">Linzer DA, Lewis JB. poLCA: an R package for polytomous variable latent class analysis. J Stat Softw. 2011;42:1&#x02013;29.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR22"><label>22.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR22" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Weller</surname><given-names>BE</given-names></name><name><surname>Bowen</surname><given-names>NK</given-names></name><name><surname>Faubert</surname><given-names>SJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Latent class analysis: a guide to best practice</article-title><source>J Black Psychol</source><year>2020</year><volume>46</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>287</fpage><lpage>311</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1177/0095798420930932</pub-id></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR22" publication-type="journal">Weller BE, Bowen NK, Faubert SJ. Latent class analysis: a guide to best practice. J Black Psychol. 2020;46(4):287&#x02013;311.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR23"><label>23.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR23" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Rojas-Saunero</surname><given-names>LP</given-names></name><name><surname>Young</surname><given-names>JG</given-names></name><name><surname>Didelez</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Ikram</surname><given-names>MA</given-names></name><name><surname>Swanson</surname><given-names>SA</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Considering questions before methods in dementia research with competing events and causal goals</article-title><source>Am J Epidemiol</source><year>2023</year><volume>192</volume><issue>8</issue><fpage>1415</fpage><lpage>1423</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1093/aje/kwad090</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 37139580?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37139580</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR23" publication-type="journal">Rojas-Saunero LP, Young JG, Didelez V, Ikram MA, Swanson SA. Considering questions before methods in dementia research with competing events and causal goals. Am J Epidemiol. 2023;192(8):1415&#x02013;23.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37139580</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR24"><label>24.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR24" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Fine</surname><given-names>JP</given-names></name><name><surname>Gray</surname><given-names>RJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>A proportional hazards model for the subdistribution of a competing risk</article-title><source>J Am Stat Assoc</source><year>1999</year><volume>94</volume><issue>446</issue><fpage>496</fpage><lpage>509</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1080/01621459.1999.10474144</pub-id></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR24" publication-type="journal">Fine JP, Gray RJ. A proportional hazards model for the subdistribution of a competing risk. J Am Stat Assoc. 1999;94(446):496&#x02013;509.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR25"><label>25.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR25" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ju</surname><given-names>YE</given-names></name><name><surname>Lucey</surname><given-names>BP</given-names></name><name><surname>Holtzman</surname><given-names>DM</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Sleep and Alzheimer disease pathology&#x02013;a bidirectional relationship</article-title><source>Nat Rev Neurol</source><year>2014</year><volume>10</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>115</fpage><lpage>119</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1038/nrneurol.2013.269</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 24366271?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24366271</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR25" publication-type="journal">Ju YE, Lucey BP, Holtzman DM. Sleep and Alzheimer disease pathology&#x02013;a bidirectional relationship. Nat Rev Neurol. 2014;10(2):115&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24366271</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR26"><label>26.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR26" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Leng</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>McEvoy</surname><given-names>CT</given-names></name><name><surname>Allen</surname><given-names>IE</given-names></name><name><surname>Yaffe</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Association of sleep-disordered breathing with cognitive function and risk of cognitive impairment: a systematic review and meta-analysis</article-title><source>JAMA Neurol</source><year>2017</year><volume>74</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>1237</fpage><lpage>1245</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1001/jamaneurol.2017.2180</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 28846764?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28846764</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR26" publication-type="journal">Leng Y, McEvoy CT, Allen IE, Yaffe K. Association of sleep-disordered breathing with cognitive function and risk of cognitive impairment: a systematic review and meta-analysis. JAMA Neurol. 2017;74(10):1237&#x02013;45.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28846764</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR27"><label>27.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR27" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Irwin</surname><given-names>MR</given-names></name><name><surname>Vitiello</surname><given-names>MV</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Implications of sleep disturbance and inflammation for Alzheimer&#x02019;s disease dementia</article-title><source>Lancet Neurol</source><year>2019</year><volume>18</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>296</fpage><lpage>306</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/S1474-4422(18)30450-2</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 30661858?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30661858</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR27" publication-type="journal">Irwin MR, Vitiello MV. Implications of sleep disturbance and inflammation for Alzheimer&#x02019;s disease dementia. Lancet Neurol. 2019;18(3):296&#x02013;306.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30661858</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR28"><label>28.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR28" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Livingston</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Huntley</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>KY</given-names></name><name><surname>Costafreda</surname><given-names>SG</given-names></name><name><surname>Selb&#x000e6;k</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Alladi</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Dementia prevention, intervention, and care: 2024 report of the Lancet standing commission</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2024</year><volume>404</volume><issue>10452</issue><fpage>572</fpage><lpage>628</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/S0140-6736(24)01296-0</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 39096926?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39096926</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR28" publication-type="journal">Livingston G, Huntley J, Liu KY, Costafreda SG, Selb&#x000e6;k G, Alladi S, et al. Dementia prevention, intervention, and care: 2024 report of the Lancet standing Commission. Lancet. 2024;404(10452):572&#x02013;628.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39096926</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR29"><label>29.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR29" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Mazzotti</surname><given-names>DR</given-names></name><name><surname>Keenan</surname><given-names>BT</given-names></name><name><surname>Lim</surname><given-names>DC</given-names></name><name><surname>Gottlieb</surname><given-names>DJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Pack</surname><given-names>AI</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Symptom subtypes of obstructive sleep apnea predict incidence of cardiovascular outcomes</article-title><source>Am J Respir Crit Care Med</source><year>2019</year><volume>200</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>493</fpage><lpage>506</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1164/rccm.201808-1509OC</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 30764637?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30764637</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR29" publication-type="journal">Mazzotti DR, Keenan BT, Lim DC, Gottlieb DJ, Kim J, Pack AI. Symptom subtypes of obstructive sleep apnea predict incidence of cardiovascular outcomes. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2019;200(4):493&#x02013;506.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30764637</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR30"><label>30.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR30" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Allen</surname><given-names>AJH</given-names></name><name><surname>Jen</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Mazzotti</surname><given-names>DR</given-names></name><name><surname>Keenan</surname><given-names>BT</given-names></name><name><surname>Goodfellow</surname><given-names>SD</given-names></name><name><surname>Taylor</surname><given-names>CM</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Symptom subtypes and risk of incident cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease in a clinic-based obstructive sleep apnea cohort</article-title><source>J Clin Sleep Med</source><year>2022</year><volume>18</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>2093</fpage><lpage>2102</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.5664/jcsm.9986</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 35459444?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35459444</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR30" publication-type="journal">Allen AJH, Jen R, Mazzotti DR, Keenan BT, Goodfellow SD, Taylor CM, et al. Symptom subtypes and risk of incident cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease in a clinic-based obstructive sleep apnea cohort. J Clin Sleep Med. 2022;18(9):2093&#x02013;102.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35459444</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR31"><label>31.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR31" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Redline</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Azarbarzin</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Peker</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Obstructive sleep apnoea heterogeneity and cardiovascular disease</article-title><source>Nat Rev Cardiol</source><year>2023</year><volume>20</volume><issue>8</issue><fpage>560</fpage><lpage>573</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1038/s41569-023-00846-6</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 36899115?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36899115</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR31" publication-type="journal">Redline S, Azarbarzin A, Peker Y. Obstructive sleep apnoea heterogeneity and cardiovascular disease. Nat Rev Cardiol. 2023;20(8):560&#x02013;73.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36899115</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR32"><label>32.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR32" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Goodman</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Sands</surname><given-names>SA</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Stampfer</surname><given-names>MJ</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>C-reactive protein and risk of OSA in four US cohorts</article-title><source>Chest</source><year>2021</year><volume>159</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>2439</fpage><lpage>2448</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.chest.2021.01.060</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 33529772?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33529772</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR32" publication-type="journal">Huang T, Goodman M, Li X, Sands SA, Li J, Stampfer MJ, et al. C-reactive protein and risk of OSA in four US cohorts. Chest. 2021;159(6):2439&#x02013;48.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33529772</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR33"><label>33.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR33" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Sands</surname><given-names>SA</given-names></name><name><surname>Stampfer</surname><given-names>MJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Tworoger</surname><given-names>SS</given-names></name><name><surname>Hu</surname><given-names>FB</given-names></name><name><surname>Redline</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Insulin resistance, hyperglycemia, and risk of developing obstructive sleep apnea in men and women in the United States</article-title><source>Ann Am Thorac Soc</source><year>2022</year><volume>19</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>1740</fpage><lpage>1749</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1513/AnnalsATS.202111-1260OC</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 35385367?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35385367</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR33" publication-type="journal">Huang T, Sands SA, Stampfer MJ, Tworoger SS, Hu FB, Redline S. Insulin resistance, hyperglycemia, and risk of developing obstructive sleep apnea in men and women in the United States. Ann Am Thorac Soc. 2022;19(10):1740&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35385367</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR34"><label>34.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR34" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Brown</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Yazdi</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Jodari-Karimi</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Owen</surname><given-names>JG</given-names></name><name><surname>Reisin</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Obstructive sleep apnea and hypertension: updates to a critical relationship</article-title><source>Curr Hypertens Rep</source><year>2022</year><volume>24</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>173</fpage><lpage>184</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1007/s11906-022-01181-w</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 35246797?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35246797</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR34" publication-type="journal">Brown J, Yazdi F, Jodari-Karimi M, Owen JG, Reisin E. Obstructive sleep apnea and hypertension: updates to a critical relationship. Curr Hypertens Rep. 2022;24(6):173&#x02013;84.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35246797</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR35"><label>35.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR35" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Goodman</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Sofer</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Tworoger</surname><given-names>SS</given-names></name><name><surname>Stampfer</surname><given-names>MJ</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Genetic predisposition to elevated c-reactive protein and risk of obstructive sleep apnea</article-title><source>Am J Respir Crit Care Med</source><year>2024</year><volume>209</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>329</fpage><lpage>331</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1164/rccm.202307-1159LE</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 37883203?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37883203</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR35" publication-type="journal">Huang T, Goodman M, Wang H, Sofer T, Tworoger SS, Stampfer MJ, et al. Genetic predisposition to elevated C-reactive protein and risk of obstructive sleep apnea. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2024;209(3):329&#x02013;31.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37883203</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR36"><label>36.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR36" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Taylor</surname><given-names>BJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Hasler</surname><given-names>BP</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Chronotype and mental health: recent advances</article-title><source>Curr Psychiatry Rep</source><year>2018</year><volume>20</volume><issue>8</issue><fpage>59</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1007/s11920-018-0925-8</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 30039327?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30039327</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR36" publication-type="journal">Taylor BJ, Hasler BP. Chronotype and mental health: recent advances. Curr Psychiatry Rep. 2018;20(8):59.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30039327</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR37"><label>37.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR37" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Hood</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Amir</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The aging clock: circadian rhythms and later life</article-title><source>J Clin Invest</source><year>2017</year><volume>127</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>437</fpage><lpage>446</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1172/JCI90328</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 28145903?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28145903</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR37" publication-type="journal">Hood S, Amir S. The aging clock: circadian rhythms and later life. J Clin Invest. 2017;127(2):437&#x02013;46.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28145903</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR38"><label>38.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR38" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Gottesman</surname><given-names>RF</given-names></name><name><surname>Lutsey</surname><given-names>PL</given-names></name><name><surname>Benveniste</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Brown</surname><given-names>DL</given-names></name><name><surname>Full</surname><given-names>KM</given-names></name><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>JM</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Impact of sleep disorders and disturbed sleep on brain health: a scientific statement from the American heart association</article-title><source>Stroke</source><year>2024</year><volume>55</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>e61</fpage><lpage>e76</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1161/STR.0000000000000453</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 38235581?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38235581</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR38" publication-type="journal">Gottesman RF, Lutsey PL, Benveniste H, Brown DL, Full KM, Lee JM, et al. Impact of sleep disorders and disturbed sleep on brain health: a scientific statement from the American Heart Association. Stroke. 2024;55(3):e61&#x02013;76.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38235581</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR39"><label>39.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR39" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Eisenmenger</surname><given-names>LB</given-names></name><name><surname>Peret</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Famakin</surname><given-names>BM</given-names></name><name><surname>Spahic</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Roberts</surname><given-names>GS</given-names></name><name><surname>Bockholt</surname><given-names>JH</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Vascular contributions to Alzheimer&#x02019;s disease</article-title><source>Transl Res</source><year>2023</year><volume>254</volume><fpage>41</fpage><lpage>53</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.trsl.2022.12.003</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 36529160?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36529160</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR39" publication-type="journal">Eisenmenger LB, Peret A, Famakin BM, Spahic A, Roberts GS, Bockholt JH, et al. Vascular contributions to Alzheimer&#x02019;s disease. Transl Res. 2023;254:41&#x02013;53.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36529160</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR40"><label>40.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR40" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kianersi</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Sofer</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Noordam</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Phillips</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Rutter</surname><given-names>MK</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association between accelerometer-measured irregular sleep duration and type 2 diabetes risk: a prospective cohort study in the UK Biobank</article-title><source>Diabetes Care</source><year>2024</year><volume>47</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>1647</fpage><lpage>1655</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.2337/dc24-0213</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 39017683?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39017683</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR40" publication-type="journal">Kianersi S, Wang H, Sofer T, Noordam R, Phillips A, Rutter MK, et al. Association between accelerometer-measured irregular sleep duration and type 2 diabetes risk: a prospective cohort study in the UK Biobank. Diabetes Care. 2024;47(9):1647&#x02013;55.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39017683</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR41"><label>41.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR41" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Mariani</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Redline</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Sleep irregularity and risk of cardiovascular events: the multi-ethnic study of atherosclerosis</article-title><source>J Am Coll Cardiol</source><year>2020</year><volume>75</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>991</fpage><lpage>999</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.jacc.2019.12.054</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 32138974?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32138974</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR41" publication-type="journal">Huang T, Mariani S, Redline S. Sleep irregularity and risk of cardiovascular events: the multi-ethnic study of atherosclerosis. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2020;75(9):991&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32138974</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR42"><label>42.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR42" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Yiallourou</surname><given-names>SR</given-names></name><name><surname>Cribb</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Cavuoto</surname><given-names>MG</given-names></name><name><surname>Rowsthorn</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Nicolazzo</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Gibson</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association of the sleep regularity index with incident dementia and brain volume</article-title><source>Neurology</source><year>2024</year><volume>102</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>e208029</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1212/WNL.0000000000208029</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 38165323?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38165323</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR42" publication-type="journal">Yiallourou SR, Cribb L, Cavuoto MG, Rowsthorn E, Nicolazzo J, Gibson M, et al. Association of the sleep regularity index with incident dementia and brain volume. Neurology. 2024;102(2): e208029.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38165323</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR43"><label>43.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR43" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kianersi</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Redline</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Mongraw-Chaffin</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Associations of slow-wave sleep with prevalent and incident type 2 diabetes in the multi-ethnic study of atherosclerosis</article-title><source>J Clin Endocrinol Metab</source><year>2023</year><volume>108</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>e1044</fpage><lpage>e1055</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1210/clinem/dgad229</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 37084404?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37084404</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR43" publication-type="journal">Kianersi S, Redline S, Mongraw-Chaffin M, Huang T. Associations of slow-wave sleep with prevalent and incident type 2 diabetes in the multi-ethnic study of atherosclerosis. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2023;108(10):e1044&#x02013;55.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37084404</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR44"><label>44.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR44" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Azarbarzin</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Sands</surname><given-names>SA</given-names></name><name><surname>Stone</surname><given-names>KL</given-names></name><name><surname>Taranto-Montemurro</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Messineo</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Terrill</surname><given-names>PI</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The hypoxic burden of sleep apnoea predicts cardiovascular disease-related mortality: the osteoporotic fractures in men study and the sleep heart health study</article-title><source>Eur Heart J</source><year>2019</year><volume>40</volume><issue>14</issue><fpage>1149</fpage><lpage>1157</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1093/eurheartj/ehy624</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 30376054?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30376054</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR44" publication-type="journal">Azarbarzin A, Sands SA, Stone KL, Taranto-Montemurro L, Messineo L, Terrill PI, et al. The hypoxic burden of sleep apnoea predicts cardiovascular disease-related mortality: the Osteoporotic Fractures in Men Study and the Sleep Heart Health Study. Eur Heart J. 2019;40(14):1149&#x02013;57.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30376054</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR45"><label>45.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR45" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Yaffe</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Laffan</surname><given-names>AM</given-names></name><name><surname>Harrison</surname><given-names>SL</given-names></name><name><surname>Redline</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Spira</surname><given-names>AP</given-names></name><name><surname>Ensrud</surname><given-names>KE</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Sleep-disordered breathing, hypoxia, and risk of mild cognitive impairment and dementia in older women</article-title><source>JAMA</source><year>2011</year><volume>306</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>613</fpage><lpage>619</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1001/jama.2011.1115</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 21828324?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21828324</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR45" publication-type="journal">Yaffe K, Laffan AM, Harrison SL, Redline S, Spira AP, Ensrud KE, et al. Sleep-disordered breathing, hypoxia, and risk of mild cognitive impairment and dementia in older women. JAMA. 2011;306(6):613&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21828324</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR46"><label>46.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Huang X, Zhang Z, Lan X, Song X, Dong Y, Jia S, et al. The association between hypoxic burden and the risk of cognitive impairment in patients with obstructive sleep apnea. Sleep. 2024.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR47"><label>47.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR47" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Baden</surname><given-names>MY</given-names></name><name><surname>Hu</surname><given-names>FB</given-names></name><name><surname>Vetter</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Schernhammer</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Redline</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Sleep duration patterns in early to middle adulthood and subsequent risk of type 2 diabetes in women</article-title><source>Diabetes Care</source><year>2020</year><volume>43</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>1219</fpage><lpage>1226</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.2337/dc19-2371</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 32209646?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32209646</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR47" publication-type="journal">Baden MY, Hu FB, Vetter C, Schernhammer E, Redline S, Huang T. Sleep duration patterns in early to middle adulthood and subsequent risk of type 2 diabetes in women. Diabetes Care. 2020;43(6):1219&#x02013;26.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32209646</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR48"><label>48.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR48" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sabia</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Fayosse</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Dumurgier</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>van Hees</surname><given-names>VT</given-names></name><name><surname>Paquet</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Sommerlad</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association of sleep duration in middle and old age with incidence of dementia</article-title><source>Nat Commun</source><year>2021</year><volume>12</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>2289</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1038/s41467-021-22354-2</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 33879784?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33879784</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR48" publication-type="journal">Sabia S, Fayosse A, Dumurgier J, van Hees VT, Paquet C, Sommerlad A, et al. Association of sleep duration in middle and old age with incidence of dementia. Nat Commun. 2021;12(1):2289.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33879784</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR49"><label>49.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR49" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Anderson</surname><given-names>EL</given-names></name><name><surname>Richmond</surname><given-names>RC</given-names></name><name><surname>Jones</surname><given-names>SE</given-names></name><name><surname>Hemani</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Wade</surname><given-names>KH</given-names></name><name><surname>Dashti</surname><given-names>HS</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Is disrupted sleep a risk factor for Alzheimer&#x02019;s disease? evidence from a two-sample Mendelian randomization analysis</article-title><source>Int J Epidemiol</source><year>2021</year><volume>50</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>817</fpage><lpage>828</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1093/ije/dyaa183</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 33150399?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33150399</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR49" publication-type="journal">Anderson EL, Richmond RC, Jones SE, Hemani G, Wade KH, Dashti HS, et al. Is disrupted sleep a risk factor for Alzheimer&#x02019;s disease? Evidence from a two-sample Mendelian randomization analysis. Int J Epidemiol. 2021;50(3):817&#x02013;28.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33150399</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR50"><label>50.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR50" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Cavaill&#x000e8;s</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Andrews</surname><given-names>SJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Leng</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Chatterjee</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Daghlas</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Yaffe</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Causal associations of sleep apnea with Alzheimer disease and cardiovascular disease: a bidirectional Mendelian randomization analysis</article-title><source>J Am Heart Assoc</source><year>2024</year><volume>13</volume><issue>18</issue><fpage>e033850</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1161/JAHA.123.033850</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 39258525?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39258525</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR50" publication-type="journal">Cavaill&#x000e8;s C, Andrews SJ, Leng Y, Chatterjee A, Daghlas I, Yaffe K. Causal associations of sleep apnea with Alzheimer disease and cardiovascular disease: a bidirectional Mendelian randomization analysis. J Am Heart Assoc. 2024;13(18): e033850.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39258525</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR51"><label>51.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">van Alten S, Domingue BW, Faul J, Galama T, Marees AT. Reweighting UK Biobank corrects for pervasive selection bias due to volunteering. Int J Epidemiol. 2024;53(3).</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR52"><label>52.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR52" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Zuber</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Matthews</surname><given-names>PM</given-names></name><name><surname>Elliott</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Tzoulaki</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Dehghan</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Sleep, major depressive disorder, and Alzheimer disease: a Mendelian randomization study</article-title><source>Neurology</source><year>2020</year><volume>95</volume><issue>14</issue><fpage>e1963</fpage><lpage>e1970</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1212/WNL.0000000000010463</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 32817390?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32817390</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR52" publication-type="journal">Huang J, Zuber V, Matthews PM, Elliott P, Tzoulaki J, Dehghan A. Sleep, major depressive disorder, and Alzheimer disease: a Mendelian randomization study. Neurology. 2020;95(14):e1963&#x02013;70.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32817390</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR53"><label>53.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR53" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Cribb</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Moreno-Betancur</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Wolfe</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Pas&#x000e9;</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Ryan</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Moving beyond the prevalent exposure design for causal inference in dementia research</article-title><source>Lancet Healthy Longev</source><year>2025</year><volume>6</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>100675</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.lanhl.2024.100675</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 39894022?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39894022</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR53" publication-type="journal">Cribb L, Moreno-Betancur M, Wu Z, Wolfe R, Pas&#x000e9; M, Ryan J. Moving beyond the prevalent exposure design for causal inference in dementia research. Lancet Healthy Longev. 2025;6(2): 100675.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39894022</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref></ref-list></back></article>