# Prevalence and attributes of cervicovaginal human papillomavirus infection among a 35-year- age- cohort of ever-married women in a district of Sri Lanka: a cross-sectional study.

<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//NLM//DTD JATS (Z39.96) Journal Archiving and Interchange DTD with MathML3 v1.3 20210610//EN" "JATS-archivearticle1-3-mathml3.dtd"> 
<article xmlns:ali="http://www.niso.org/schemas/ali/1.0/" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" article-type="research-article" dtd-version="1.3"><?properties open_access?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierValue -//Springer-Verlag//DTD A++ V2.4//EN?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierType public?><?SourceDTD.DTDName A++V2.4.dtd?><?SourceDTD.Version 2.4?><?ConverterInfo.XSLTName springer2nlmx2.xsl?><?ConverterInfo.Version 1?><processing-meta base-tagset="archiving" mathml-version="3.0" table-model="xhtml" tagset-family="jats"><restricted-by>pmc</restricted-by></processing-meta><front><journal-meta><journal-id journal-id-type="nlm-ta">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-id journal-id-type="iso-abbrev">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-title-group><journal-title>BMC Medicine</journal-title></journal-title-group><issn pub-type="epub">1741-7015</issn><publisher><publisher-name>BioMed Central</publisher-name><publisher-loc>London</publisher-loc></publisher></journal-meta>
<article-meta><article-id pub-id-type="pmcid">12211446</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="publisher-id">4246</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12916-025-04246-0</article-id><article-categories><subj-group subj-group-type="heading"><subject>Research</subject></subj-group></article-categories><title-group><article-title>Prevalence and attributes of cervicovaginal human papillomavirus infection among a 35-year- age- cohort of ever-married women in a district of Sri Lanka: a cross-sectional study</article-title></title-group><contrib-group><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Perera</surname><given-names>K. C. M.</given-names></name><address><email>chithranganieperera@yahoo.com</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff4">4</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Mapitigama</surname><given-names>N.</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Abeysena</surname><given-names>H. T. C. S.</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref></contrib><aff id="Aff1"><label>1</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/054pkye94</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.466905.8</institution-id><institution>Nutrition Division, Ministry of Health, </institution></institution-wrap>Colombo, Sri Lanka </aff><aff id="Aff2"><label>2</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/054pkye94</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.466905.8</institution-id><institution>Family Health Bureau, Ministry of Health, </institution></institution-wrap>Colombo, Sri Lanka </aff><aff id="Aff3"><label>3</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/02r91my29</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.45202.31</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0000 8631 5388</institution-id><institution>University of Kelaniya, </institution></institution-wrap>Gampaha, Sri Lanka </aff><aff id="Aff4"><label>4</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/00rqy9422</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.1003.2</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0000 9320 7537</institution-id><institution>The School of Public Health, </institution><institution>University of Queensland, </institution></institution-wrap>Brisbane, QLD Australia </aff></contrib-group><pub-date pub-type="epub"><day>1</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="pmc-release"><day>1</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="collection"><year>2025</year></pub-date><volume>23</volume><elocation-id>358</elocation-id><history><date date-type="received"><day>17</day><month>9</month><year>2024</year></date><date date-type="accepted"><day>24</day><month>6</month><year>2025</year></date></history><permissions><copyright-statement>&#x000a9; The Author(s) 2025</copyright-statement><copyright-year>2025</copyright-year><license><ali:license_ref specific-use="textmining" content-type="ccbyncndlicense">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ali:license_ref><license-p><bold>Open Access</bold> This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed material. You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/">http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ext-link>.</license-p></license></permissions><abstract id="Abs1"><sec><title>Background</title><p id="Par9">All cervical cancers are virtually associated with sexually transmitted cervicovaginal human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. The objective of the study was to determine the prevalence and risk factors of cervicovaginal Human Papillomavirus infection among a 35&#x02013;year&#x02013;old&#x02013;age cohort of ever-married women in Kalutara district.</p></sec><sec><title>Methods</title><p id="Par10">A community-based descriptive cross-sectional study was conducted from 1st of July 2018 to 30th November 2018 among ever-married women 35&#x000a0;years of age in Kalutara district. Three women from each cluster (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;413) were selected by consecutive sampling technique. HPV/DNA cervical specimen collection (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;822) was carried out. Cervical specimens were tested by well-trained cyto-screeners with cobas 4800 HPV/DNA automated Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) machine. An Interviewer-administered questionnaire was used to gather information regarding socio-demographics, reproductive health, contraceptive methods, and sexual behaviours. Multivariate logistic regression was performed and expressed as odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI).</p></sec><sec><title>Results</title><p id="Par11">The prevalence of HPV infection was 6.2% (95% CI: 6.18%-6.22%), while the prevalence of high-risk genotypes 16 and 18 was 1.94% (95% CI: 1.93%-1.95%). The prevalence of 12 pooled high-risk HPV infection was 4.14% (95% CI:4.13%-4.15%). In multivariate logistic regression analysis, age at marriage&#x02009;&#x02264;&#x02009;24&#x000a0;years (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;4.04, 95% CI:1.75-9.34), any abortion including both induced and miscarriages (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;10.1, 95% CI: 3.07-33.7), use of hormonal contraceptives for&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;3&#x000a0;months (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;45.5, 95% CI: 18.7-110.5) and a number of vaginal deliveries&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;2 (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;9.7, 95% CI: 3.7-25.2) were found to have a significant risk association with HPV infection, while average monthly income&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;Rs. 15,000 (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.12, 95% CI, 0.04-0.32) and ever use of a condom by a spouse (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.04, 95% CI: 0.01-0.16) were found to have a significant protective association with HPV infection.</p></sec><sec><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par12">Exposure to HPV infection is determined by risk factors such as early marriage, any abortions, prolonged usage of hormonal contraceptives, and high number of vaginal deliveries. Strengthening behaviour change communication to alleviate underlying risk factors and to promote prevention is very important.</p></sec><sec><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12916-025-04246-0.</p></sec></abstract><kwd-group xml:lang="en"><title>Keywords</title><kwd>Cervical cancer</kwd><kwd>HPV infection</kwd><kwd>Prevalence</kwd><kwd>HPV/DNA screening</kwd><kwd>Risk</kwd><kwd>Behaviours</kwd></kwd-group><custom-meta-group><custom-meta><meta-name>issue-copyright-statement</meta-name><meta-value>&#x000a9; BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2025</meta-value></custom-meta></custom-meta-group></article-meta></front><body><sec id="Sec1"><title>Background</title><p id="Par23">Malignant, autonomous, and uncontrolled growth of cells &#x00026; tissues which occur in the cervix of the female uterus is called cervical cancer. Cervical cancer is the second most common female cancer in Sri Lanka. Ninety percent of cervical cancers are squamous cell cancers and occur in the transformation zone of the ectocervix and the rest of the 10% are adenocarcinomas, which arise in the glandular columnar layer of the endocervix [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>].
</p><p id="Par24">As in some other cancers, cervical cancer is also preceded by a precursor stage called cervical precancer. According to the histology used for the diagnosis, there are 3 types of precancer stages prior to the invasive cervical carcinoma; Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia (CIN) stages 1, II, &#x00026; III. According to the cytology classification used for screening, there are two types of precancer stages prior to an invasive cervical carcinoma; Low-Grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesion (LGSIL) and High-Grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesion (HGSIL). Low-Grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesion is compatible with CIN I, while the HGSIL is compatible with either CIN II or CIN III [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>].</p><p id="Par25">Cervical cancer has a well-known association with Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. Persistent infection with carcinogenic HPV types is the cause of most cervical cancer [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>]. More than one hundred and fifty HPV genotypes have been identified to date and nearly 60 different types of them are known to infect the human genital tract including cervix uteri. There are carcinogenic and non-carcinogenic genotypes and 10-15 carcinogenic genotypes are mainly associated with cervical cancer [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>]. Some carcinogenic genotypes are classified as &#x0201c;high risk&#x0201d; (16,18,31,33,35,39,45,51,52, 56,58 and 59) as there is evidence of increased risk association.</p><p id="Par26">between high-risk HPV infection and cervical cancer [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>]. Compared to other carcinogenic genotypes of HPV infection, genotypes 16 and 18 have a 190 times increased risk of developing cervical cancer [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>]. In addition, HPV genotypes 26, 53, 66, 68, and 72 are considered possible carcinogens [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>].</p><p id="Par27">Cofactors favouring HPV infection are not well defined and the following risk factors probably play a role; type of the HPV and its oncogenicity, commencement of sexual activity at an early age, multiple sexual partners, a partner who participates in high-risk sexual activities, immune suppression acquired or primary, poor socio-economic status- poor hygiene and connection with other sexually transmitted agents. Co-factors that precipitate HPV infection to persist are; high parity, tobacco smoking, poor nutritional status, and prolonged usage of oral contraceptive pills (a slight increase in risk is observed with usage for&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;5&#x000a0;years, whereas usage for&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;10&#x000a0;years shows increased risk) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>]. Several studies have shown a positive association between the frequency of sexual intercourse and HPV infection.&#x000a0;For example, one study found that individuals reporting 2-4 times per month had a higher prevalence of HPV than those reporting less frequent intercourse [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>].</p><p id="Par28">A comprehensive cervical cancer prevention &#x00026; control programme should include primordial, primary, secondary, and tertiary prevention activities (including treatment) and access to palliative care [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>]. Primordial prevention addresses alleviating underlying conditions before occurring risk factors to the disease (e.g. health education), whereas primary prevention addresses alleviating underlying risk factors to the disease. Secondary prevention is focused on early detection of the disease (screening) and tertiary prevention is aimed at some specific treatment for the condition and rehabilitation process to promote life [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>].</p><p id="Par29">Overall cervicovaginal HPV prevalence in 2009 among 20-59- year-old ever-married women in Gampaha district was 3.3% in Sri Lanka [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>]. The objective of the study was to determine the prevalence and associated factors of cervicovaginal HPV infection among a 35-year-old cohort of ever-married women in a district of Sri Lanka, which would enable us to find the primary preventive measures for HPV infection by alleviating underlying risk factors.</p></sec><sec id="Sec2"><title>Methods</title><p id="Par30">A community-based cross-sectional study was conducted from 1&#x02009;st of July 2018 to 30th November 2018. The study population comprised of ever-married women in the 35-year age cohort in Kalutara district. Women with diagnosed invasive cervical cancer, per vaginal bleeding, active infection at the time of examination evidenced by medical records or by visual inspection, who were currently on treatment for HPV infection, pregnancy,&#x02009;&#x02264;&#x02009;three months in the postpartum period, and who had undergone hysterectomy were excluded from the study.</p><p id="Par31">For the calculation of the sample size, we assumed that the expected prevalence of HPV was 3.3% [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>] and the degree of accuracy desired specified was 0.016 (3.3/100&#x02009;&#x000d7;&#x02009;2). Therefore we needed 479 women. To account for the cluster effect, it was necessary to adjust the required sample size having it multiplied by the design effect, which was taken as 1.1. Further adjustment to the sample size was made by considering the previous year&#x02019;s Well Woman Clinic (WWC) non-response rate (42.4%) in the Kalutara district [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>] and the final required sample size was 915.</p><p id="Par32">A Public Health Midwife (PHM) area was taken as a cluster. In the district, there are 413 PHM areas. Eligible couple registers were the sampling frame. Three women were selected from each cluster from the list of 35-year-age cohort ever-married women population prepared from relevant area eligible family register/s according to the ascending order of register numbers. We selected the first subject from the list by using a lot method [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>] and then two more subjects were selected forward and consecutively. A total number of 918 women were recruited to the study after applying exclusion criteria in a field setting.</p><p id="Par33">Information regarding socio-demographic characteristics, reproductive health history, contraceptive history, gynecological history, behavioural information of participants, and information on the marital and sexual partners was gathered by using an interviewer-administered questionnaire (Annexure-I). Face and content validity were assessed by the panel of experts during the process of questionnaire development. The questionnaire was pre-tested with 15 women at a WWC to identify deficiencies and for necessary modifications.</p><p id="Par34">HPV/DNA cervical specimen collection was carried out by well-trained healthcare workers at WWCs according to the prepared guidelines (Annexure-2). Cusco&#x02019;s speculum was inserted to visualize the cervix before obtaining an HPV/DNA cervical specimen. HPV/DNA specimens obtained from the cervix using special broom-like devices were separately placed into HPV/DNA specimen collection containers with cell collection media/thinprep (20&#x000a0;ml). Cervical specimens were packed and transported to the laboratory District General Hospital, Kalutara. Prepared guidelines were strictly adhered to during data collection, barcoding, and preparation for transport. Cervical specimens were screened at the laboratory by well-trained cyto-screeners with a cobas 4800 HPV/DNA automated PCR machine, which consists of a cobas 4800&#x02009;&#x000d7;&#x02009;instrument and a cobas analyzer. Cobas 4800 HPV/DNA screening machine included several quality control mechanisms such as internal quality control, external quality control, and contamination control. Sensitivity and specificity to detect&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia (CIN) II viral load by cobas 4800 HPV/DNA test are 92.9% and 71% respectively [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>]. It detects 14 high-risk carcinogenic HPV genotypes, such as; 16, 18, and 12 pooled high-risk (31, 33, 35, 39, 45, 51, 52, 56, 58, 59, 66, and 68).</p><p id="Par35">Public Health Midwives (PHMM) were uniformly trained to locate households. A two-day training session was conducted for research assistants (RA) (five pre-intern medical graduates) to familiarize them with the proceedings. The research assistant&#x02019;s guide on observation of service provision related to the cervical cancer screening programme at the community WWC and the reference laboratory for cytology was distributed. They were uniformly trained to administer an interviewer-administered questionnaire. A questionnaire was administered at a separate and neutral place within the house to maintain the privacy and confidentiality of data collection. Once a questionnaire was completed, the participant was given a clinic appointment card with a reference number and invited to attend the clinic. During the study, 10 participants from each RA were randomly selected and re-interviewed by the first author to assess the reliability. Kappa statistics for each item range between 0.96 to 1.00.</p><p id="Par36">Staff trainings were conducted to collect cervical HPV/DNA specimens. Videos and guidelines were used for staff training. Instruction regarding accurate numbering of specimens, completion of specimen request forms, and preparation for transport were also included in the training&#x000a0;sessions. Two cytoscreeners were uniformly trained for specimen barcoding to handle the machine and report writing to ensure the quality of performance.</p><p id="Par37">Data were entered by using SPSS version 20. The overall prevalence of the cervicovaginal HPV infection and subgroup analysis (HPV genotypes 16, 18, and 12 pooled risk) were estimated. Bivariate analysis was performed to assess the association of selected factors with cervicovaginal HPV infection. Multivariate logistic regression analysis was carried out to assess the confounding effect of multiple factors associated with cervicovaginal HPV infection. The dependent variable was HPV/DNA positive (1) or HPV/DNA negative (0). Backward stepwise selection was applied. Collinearity and interactions were assessed. Results were expressed as odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI). Lemeshow goodness of fit test for the final model was calculated.</p></sec><sec id="Sec3"><title>Results</title><p id="Par38">The response rate was 91.1% (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;836). Fourteen were excluded at the clinic setting due to pregnant status (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;3), vaginal discharge (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;4), cervicitis (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;3), fungal infection (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;2), and, cervical erosion (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;2). HPV/DNA coverage was 89.5% (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;822). Out of 822 participants, 9% (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;74) had not completed years of school education beyond the 5th grade and another 12.2% (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;100) remained at 6-11th grade. The majority (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;553, 76.2%) were educated up to advanced level.</p><p id="Par39">The prevalence of cervicovaginal HPV infection among ever-married women of the 35-year-old age cohort was 6.2% (95% CI: 6.18%&#x02212;6.22%), as 51, had tested positive for HPV infection out of&#x000a0;822 participants. The prevalence of high-risk carcinogenic HPV genotypes 16(<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;14) and 18(<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;2) was 1.94% (95% CI: 1.93%&#x02212;1.95%), while the other 12 pooled high-risk HPV genotypes (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;34) was 4.14% (95% CI: 4.13%&#x02212;4.15%) (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref>).</p><p id="Par40">
<table-wrap id="Tab1"><label>Table 1</label><caption><p>Prevalence of cervico-vaginal HPV infection in the District</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left">Cervical HPV/DNA specimen results for HR-HPV genotypes</th><th align="left">Number of women</th><th align="left">Prevalence %</th><th align="left">95% CI for the prevalence %</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">Negative</td><td align="left">771</td><td align="left">93.8</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">12 pooled positive</td><td align="left">34</td><td align="left">4.14</td><td align="left">4.13-4.15</td></tr><tr><td align="left">16 positive</td><td align="left">14</td><td align="left">1.7</td><td align="left">1.69-1.71</td></tr><tr><td align="left">18 positive</td><td align="left">2</td><td align="left">0.24</td><td align="left">0.23-0.25</td></tr><tr><td align="left">16 &#x00026; 12 pooled positive</td><td align="left">01</td><td align="left">0.12</td><td align="left">0.1-0.13</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Total</td><td align="left">822</td><td align="left">100.0</td><td align="left"/></tr></tbody></table></table-wrap></p><p id="Par41">In binary analysis, there was a significant association of cervicovaginal HPV infection with early marriage&#x02009;&#x02264;&#x02009;24&#x000a0;years (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;4.1, 95% CI: 2.11-7.95, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001), number of vaginal deliveries&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;2 (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;6.91, 95% CI: 3.42-13.82, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001), any abortion including both induced and miscarriages (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;5.48, 95% CI: 2.44-12.32, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001), contraceptive ever user (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;4.36, 95% CI: 1.34-14.16, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05) and hormonal contraceptives&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;3&#x000a0;months (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;9.5, 95% CI: 5.16-17.52, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001), while average monthly income Rs.&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;15,000 (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.2, 95% CI: 0.08-0.62, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001) and ever use of condom by spouse at coitus (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.25, 95% CI: 0.08-8 0.81,<italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05) were found to have significant protective association with cervico-vaginal HPV infection (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref>).
<table-wrap id="Tab2"><label>Table 2</label><caption><p>Association between cervico-vaginal HPV infection and socio demographic factors, maternal factors, abortion status, contraceptive methods and sexual relationship</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left">Socio demographic factors</th><th align="left">HPV&#x02009;+&#x02009; <italic>N</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;51</th><th align="left">% 6.2</th><th align="left">HPV- 771</th><th align="left">% 93.8</th><th align="left">Total 822</th><th align="left">OR</th><th align="left">95% CI</th><th align="left"><italic>p</italic> value</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Race</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Sinhala</td><td align="left">47</td><td align="left">5.9</td><td align="left">753</td><td align="left">94.1</td><td align="left">800</td><td align="left">0.28</td><td align="left">0.09&#x02013;0.86</td><td align="left">0.018</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Non-Sinhala<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">04</td><td align="left">18.2</td><td align="left">18</td><td align="left">81.8</td><td align="left">22</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Religion</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Buddhist</td><td align="left">46</td><td align="left">5.8</td><td align="left">753</td><td align="left">94.2</td><td align="left">799</td><td align="left">0.22</td><td align="left">0.08&#x02013;0.62</td><td align="left">0.002</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Non-Buddhist<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">05</td><td align="left">21.7</td><td align="left">18</td><td align="left">78.3</td><td align="left">23</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Education</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x0003e;&#x02009;grade 5</td><td align="left">42</td><td align="left">5.6</td><td align="left">706</td><td align="left">94.4</td><td align="left">748</td><td align="left">0.43</td><td align="left">0.20&#x02013;0.92</td><td align="left">0.026</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02264;&#x02009;grade 5<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">09</td><td align="left">12.2</td><td align="left">65</td><td align="left">87.8</td><td align="left">74</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Average monthly income</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x0003e;&#x02009;15,000</td><td align="left">38</td><td align="left">5.0</td><td align="left">722</td><td align="left">95.0</td><td align="left">760</td><td align="left">0.2</td><td align="left">0.08&#x02013;0.62</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02264;&#x02009;15, 000<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">13</td><td align="left">21.0</td><td align="left">49</td><td align="left">79.0</td><td align="left">62</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Occupational status</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Working</td><td align="left">09</td><td align="left">4.1</td><td align="left">209</td><td align="left">95.9</td><td align="left">218</td><td align="left">0.58</td><td align="left">0.28&#x02013;1.2</td><td align="left">0.14</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Non-working<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">42</td><td align="left">7.0</td><td align="left">562</td><td align="left">93.0</td><td align="left">604</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Spouse ever gone for foreign employment</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Yes</td><td align="left">02</td><td align="left">11.1</td><td align="left">16</td><td align="left">88.9</td><td align="left">18</td><td align="left">1.93</td><td align="left">0.43&#x02013;8.62</td><td align="left">0.38</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;No<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">49</td><td align="left">6.1</td><td align="left">755</td><td align="left">93.9</td><td align="left">804</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Total</td><td align="left">51</td><td align="left">6.2</td><td align="left">771</td><td align="left">93.8</td><td align="left">822</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Maternal factors</td><td align="left">HPV&#x02009;+&#x02009;</td><td align="left">%</td><td align="left">HPV-</td><td align="left">%</td><td align="left">Total</td><td align="left">OR</td><td align="left">95% CI</td><td align="left"><italic>p</italic> value</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Age at marriage</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02264;&#x02009;24 years</td><td align="left">39</td><td align="left">10.3</td><td align="left">341</td><td align="left">89.7</td><td align="left">380</td><td align="left">4.1</td><td align="left">2.11&#x02013;7.95</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x0003e;&#x02009;24 years<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">12</td><td align="left">2.7</td><td align="left">430</td><td align="left">97.3</td><td align="left">442</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Ever pregnant</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;No</td><td align="left">01</td><td align="left">1.9</td><td align="left">52</td><td align="left">98.1</td><td align="left">53</td><td align="left">3.62</td><td align="left">0.49&#x02013;26.7</td><td align="left">0.18</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Yes<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">50</td><td align="left">6.5</td><td align="left">719</td><td align="left">93.5</td><td align="left">769</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Duration of time between marriage &#x00026; first pregnancy</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x0003e;&#x02009;5 years</td><td align="left">11</td><td align="left">10.6</td><td align="left">93</td><td align="left">89.4</td><td align="left">104</td><td align="left">2.0</td><td align="left">0.99&#x02013;4.04</td><td align="left">0.07</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02264;&#x02009;5 years<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">40</td><td align="left">5.6</td><td align="left">678</td><td align="left">94.4</td><td align="left">718</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Number of pregnancies</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02265;&#x02009;3</td><td align="left">03</td><td align="left">20.0</td><td align="left">12</td><td align="left">80.0</td><td align="left">15</td><td align="left">3.95</td><td align="left">1.08&#x02013;14.48</td><td align="left">0.04</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x0003c;&#x02009;3<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">48</td><td align="left">5.9</td><td align="left">759</td><td align="left">94.1</td><td align="left">807</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Mode of delivery</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Vaginal</td><td align="left">47</td><td align="left">6.5</td><td align="left">676</td><td align="left">93.5</td><td align="left">723</td><td align="left">1.65</td><td align="left">0.58&#x02013;4.69</td><td align="left">0.34</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Non-vaginal<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">04</td><td align="left">4.0</td><td align="left">95</td><td align="left">96.0</td><td align="left">99</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Number of vaginal delivery</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x0003e;&#x02009;2</td><td align="left">14</td><td align="left">25.9</td><td align="left">40</td><td align="left">74.1</td><td align="left">54</td><td align="left">6.91</td><td align="left">3.42&#x02013;13.8</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02264;&#x02009;2<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">37</td><td align="left">4.8</td><td align="left">731</td><td align="left">95.2</td><td align="left">768</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Any abortion</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Yes</td><td align="left">09</td><td align="left">23.7</td><td align="left">29</td><td align="left">76.3</td><td align="left">38</td><td align="left">5.48</td><td align="left">2.44&#x02013;12.32</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;No<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">42</td><td align="left">5.4</td><td align="left">742</td><td align="left">94.6</td><td align="left">784</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Number of abortion</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x0003e;&#x02009;2</td><td align="left">02</td><td align="left">66.7</td><td align="left">01</td><td align="left">33.3</td><td align="left">03</td><td align="left">31.4</td><td align="left">2.8&#x02013;352.7</td><td align="left">0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02264;&#x02009;2<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">49</td><td align="left">6.0</td><td align="left">770</td><td align="left">94.0</td><td align="left">819</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Any surgical intervention following abortion/s</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Yes</td><td align="left">03</td><td align="left">60.0</td><td align="left">02</td><td align="left">40.0</td><td align="left">05</td><td align="left">6.75</td><td align="left">0.92&#x02013;49.67</td><td align="left">0.058</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;No<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">06</td><td align="left">18.2</td><td align="left">27</td><td align="left">81.8</td><td align="left">33</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Contraceptive ever user</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Yes</td><td align="left">48</td><td align="left">7.3</td><td align="left">606</td><td align="left">92.7</td><td align="left">654</td><td align="left">4.36</td><td align="left">1.34&#x02013;14.16</td><td align="left">0.008</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;No<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">03</td><td align="left">1.8</td><td align="left">165</td><td align="left">98.2</td><td align="left">168</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Hormonal contraceptives&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;3&#x000a0;months</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Yes</td><td align="left">34</td><td align="left">20.2</td><td align="left">134</td><td align="left">79.8</td><td align="left">168</td><td align="left">9.5</td><td align="left">5.16&#x02013;17.52</td><td align="left">0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;No<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">17</td><td align="left">2.6</td><td align="left">637</td><td align="left">97.4</td><td align="left">654</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Condom user at coitus</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Yes</td><td align="left">03</td><td align="left">1.9</td><td align="left">155</td><td align="left">98.1</td><td align="left">158</td><td align="left">0.25</td><td align="left">(0.08&#x02013;0.81)</td><td align="left">0.01</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;No<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">48</td><td align="left">7.2</td><td align="left">616</td><td align="left">92.8</td><td align="left">664</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Frequency of coitus during last 3&#x000a0;months</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02265;&#x02009;2/monthly</td><td align="left">50</td><td align="left">6.8</td><td align="left">682</td><td align="left">93.2</td><td align="left">732</td><td align="left">6.53</td><td align="left">0.89&#x02013;47.82</td><td align="left"><italic>p</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.059</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Other<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">01</td><td align="left">1.1</td><td align="left">89</td><td align="left">98.9</td><td align="left">90</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Type of sexual relationship mainly involved during the last year</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Per vaginal</td><td align="left">45</td><td align="left">5.9</td><td align="left">715</td><td align="left">94.1</td><td align="left">760</td><td align="left">0.59</td><td align="left">0.24&#x02013;1.44</td><td align="left">0.24</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Other<sup>a</sup></td><td align="left">06</td><td align="left">9.7</td><td align="left">56</td><td align="left">90.3</td><td align="left">62</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p><sup>a</sup>Reference category</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p><p id="Par42">In multivariate logistic regression dependent variable was HPV/DNA positive (1) and HPV/DNA negative (0). Seventeen independent variables/covariates (sample size&#x02009;=&#x02009;822) with <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.25 were tested in the multivariate analysis. Contrast category was the age at marriage (&#x02264;&#x02009;24&#x000a0;years or&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;24&#x000a0;years). In the multivariate logistic regression model age at marriage&#x02009;&#x02264;&#x02009;24&#x000a0;years (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;4.04, 95% CI:1.75&#x02013;9.34, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05), any abortion including both induced and miscarriages (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;10.14, 95% CI: 3.07&#x02013;33.75, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001), hormonal contraceptives&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;3&#x000a0;months (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;45.48, 95% CI: 18.71&#x02013;110.55, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001) and a number of vaginal deliveries&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;2 (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;9.68, 95% CI: 3.71&#x02013;25.24, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001) were found to have a significant risk association with cervicovaginal HPV infection, while average monthly income&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;Rs. 15,000 (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.12, 95% CI, 0.04&#x02013;0.32, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001) and ever use of a condom by a spouse (OR&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.04, 95% CI: 0.01&#x02013;0.16, <italic>p</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001) were found to have a significant protective association with cervicovaginal HPV infection. There was no significant association of contraceptive ever users with cervicovaginal HPV infection in the multivariate logistic regression model (Table <xref rid="Tab3" ref-type="table">3</xref>). Hosmor-Lemeshow goodness of fit test <italic>p</italic> value&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.34. <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;0.1, therefore the model is a good fit.
<table-wrap id="Tab3"><label>Table 3</label><caption><p>Multivariate logistic regression model of factors determining cervicovaginal HPV infection</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left">Variable</th><th align="left">B</th><th align="left">SE</th><th align="left">OR, (95%CI)</th><th align="left"><italic>p</italic>-value</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left"><p>Average monthly income</p><p>&#x02003;&#x0003e;15,000</p><p>&#x02003;&#x02264;15,000<sup>a</sup></p></td><td align="left">&#x02212;2.15</td><td align="left">0.51</td><td align="left">0.12(0.04-0.32)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><p>Age at Marriage</p><p>&#x02003;&#x02264;24&#x000a0; years</p><p>&#x02003;&#x0003e;24&#x000a0; years<sup>a</sup></p></td><td align="left">1.4</td><td align="left">0.43</td><td align="left">4.04(1.75-9.34)</td><td align="left">0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><p>Condom ever user at coitus</p><p>&#x02003;Yes</p><p>&#x02003;No<sup>a</sup></p></td><td align="left">&#x02212;3.15</td><td align="left">0.69</td><td align="left">0.04(0.01-0.16)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><p>Any abortions</p><p>&#x02003;Yes</p><p>&#x02003;No<sup>a</sup></p></td><td align="left">2.32</td><td align="left">0.61</td><td align="left">10.1(3.07-33.7)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><p>Contraceptive ever user</p><p>&#x02003;Yes</p><p>&#x02003;No<sup>a</sup></p></td><td align="left">1.3</td><td align="left">0.73</td><td align="left">3.66(0.87-15.3)</td><td align="left">0.08</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><p>Hormonal contraceptives&#x02265; 3months</p><p>&#x02003;Yes</p><p>&#x02003;No<sup>a</sup></p></td><td align="left">3.82</td><td align="left">0.45</td><td align="left">45.5(18.71-110.5)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;0.001</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><p>Number of vaginal delivery</p><p>&#x02003;&#x0003e;2&#x000a0;</p><p>&#x02003;&#x02264;2<sup>a</sup></p></td><td align="left">2.27</td><td align="left">0.49</td><td align="left">9.70(3.71-25.2)</td><td align="left">&#x0003c;0.001</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p><sup>a</sup>Reference category</p><p>Lemeshow goodness of fit test <italic>p</italic> value=0.34, <italic>p</italic>&#x0003e;0.10</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p></sec><sec id="Sec4"><title>Discussion</title><p id="Par43">To prevent cervicovaginal HPV infection, HPV vaccination was initiated into the National Immunization Schedule Sri Lanka, in July/2017. Two doses of vaccine are given to 10-11-year-old girls (in grade 6) with a minimum interval time of 6&#x000a0;months through a school-based vaccination programme to prevent cervical cancer. Even though the seroconversion was 100%, it will take another 25-30&#x000a0;years for the effect of the vaccine benefits to appear. The quadrivalent HPV vaccine was developed to avert the risks attributed by genotypes 16 and 18 for cervical cancer prevention (70%) which included protection for non-oncogenic components of genotypes 6 and 11 for the prevention of genital warts and recurrent respiratory papillomatosis (RRP). So the rest of the 30% of high-risk carcinogenic HPV viruses are not covered by the present quadrivalent HPV vaccine in Sri Lanka. Vaccine cost remains high for two doses, therefore even if the vaccination against cervicovaginal HPV infection is sustainable, behavioural change communication (primary prevention) and screening (secondary prevention) still remain the feasible option to prevent cervical cancer in Sri Lanka [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>].</p><p id="Par44">There was a marked elevation in the prevalence of cervicovaginal HPV infection from 2009 (3.3%) in the Gampaha district [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>] to 2019 (6.2%) in the Kalutara district among the ever-married women population. Moreover, high-risk genotypes 16 and 18 prevalence were elevated from 1.2% to 1.94% within the same duration. The prevalence of other high-risk HPV genotypes (except genotypes 16 and 18) was too markedly increased from 2.1% in 2009 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>] to 4.14% in 2019. The age group screened for HPV/DNA in 2009 was 20-59-year-old ever-married women in Gampaha district [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>]. Usually, the transient HPV infection rate was high among sexually active women&#x02009;&#x02264;&#x02009;30&#x000a0;years of age [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>], so the absolute prevalence rates of HPV infection in 35- year age cohort in 2009 maybe even smaller than the mentioned data [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>].</p><p id="Par45">The risk of HPV infection was higher in women aged 25 to 34&#x000a0;years, in early married women below 20&#x000a0;years of age, and in women with parity&#x002c3;4. The prevalence of HPV genotype 18 (1.4%) was greater than that of HPV genotype 16 (0.6%) in India [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>]. The prevalence of HPV infection among the general population varies from 7%&#x02212;14.5% and the age-specific prevalence across age groups is constant with no clear peak in young women in India, Bangladesh, Nepal, and Sri Lanka [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>]. Therefore, the prevalence of cervicovaginal HPV infection among Sri Lankan females gives much similar pattern to some other countries in South-East Asia.</p><p id="Par46">The prevalence of cervicovaginal infection varies with the ethnicity of the study population in the present study. Similar ethnical differences have been reported in some other countries i.e. Brazil [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>]. In the present study, the prevalence of cervicovaginal infection was higher among participants with an education level&#x02009;&#x02264;&#x02009;fifth grade and average monthly income&#x02009;&#x02264;&#x02009;Rs.15000. It indicates lower awareness of health, risky sexual behaviour, poor nutrition and, low immunity. A similar pattern was observed in some other countries i.e. Sweden, and Nigeria [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>]. Some other studies also revealed the higher prevalence rates of cervicovaginal HPV infection among low-average monthly income women [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>]. In contrast, some other countries reported a high prevalence of cervicovaginal infection among much higher educated (&#x0003e;&#x02009;12&#x000a0;years) women with a high average monthly income i.e. China [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>].</p><p id="Par47">The prevalence of cervicovaginal HPV infection was higher among women, who were married before&#x02009;&#x02264;&#x02009;24&#x000a0;years of age and frequency of coitus&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;two times per month, which showed the higher ability of vaginal mucosa to acquire infection at a younger age and persistence of the infection. Similar associations had been described in some other studies [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>]. Several studies have revealed a higher association of cervicovaginal HPV infection among women who married&#x02009;&#x02264;&#x02009;24&#x000a0;years of age [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>]. The prevalence of cervicovaginal infection was lower among females with ever use of a condom by a spouse, which showed a similar pattern in some other countries i.e. China, and India [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>]. The prevalence of cervicovaginal HPV infection was higher among participants with a number of pregnancies&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;three. A similar pattern of prevalence was observed in some other studies i.e. Turkey, Nepal [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>]. The prevalence of cervicovaginal infection was higher among women with vaginal deliveries&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;two and a similar pattern of prevalence was observed in some other studies in Sri Lanka [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>]. The prevalence of cervicovaginal HPV infection was higher among participants with a number of abortions&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;two, which gives a similar pattern of association to some other countries i.e. China [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>]. The prevalence of cervicovaginal HPV infection was higher among participants, who were on hormonal contraceptives&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;3&#x000a0;months. A similar pattern of association was reported in some other countries [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>].</p><p id="Par48">The prevalence of cervicovaginal HPV infection was increased in Sri Lanka due to poor primordial and primary preventive strategies to address risk behaviors. Further, the present&#x000a0;prevalence trend will ultimately increase the risk of cervical cancer more as the present cervical cancer screening programme has two major drawbacks; low sensitivity of the pap test and poor coverage of the programme. It is always necessary to enhance the literacy rate of all the ethnicities of Sri Lanka to overcome this challenge and ultimately it will improve their educational status, withdraw some cultural myths and beliefs, and improve good practices (i.e. contraceptives). A Behavioural change communication will be an effective module to improve some protective behaviours; ever use of a condom by a spouse, planned pregnancies to minimize unnecessary abortions&#x02026;etc.).</p><p id="Par49">An interviewer-administered questionnaire was used to gather information from participants. Therefore, there can be an information bias due to the stigma of the participants exploring some details related to their lives (i.e. risky behaviours, sexual partners, sexual relationships&#x02026;etc.).</p></sec><sec id="Sec5"><title>Limitations of the study</title><p id="Par50">A post-hoc power analysis was not conducted to ensure that the sample size was adequate for detecting significant effects across subgroups (e.g. age, and socioeconomic status). This study was restricted to one district out of 25 districts in Sri Lanka due to logistic constraints. The population characteristics and the public health infrastructure of the district favoured the generalizability of the research findings to the whole country. This study was conducted in 2018 but these findings are still relevant as We identified some risk factors which are culturally linked not due to risk-taking behaviour. In addition, there was no time to address behavioural change communication for the population in Sri Lanka due to the COVID-19 pandemic followed by the recent economic crisis.</p></sec><sec id="Sec6"><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par51">The present study has revealed that the prevalence of cervicovaginal HPV infection was significantly high among 35&#x000a0;year age cohort of ever-married women with, early marriage, any abortions including induced and miscarriages, prolonged usage of hormonal contraception, and high number of vaginal deliveries. Therefore, it is necessary to strengthen the behavioural change communication module for cervicovaginal HPV infection also as a primary prevention method along with the HPV vaccination among the population in Sri Lanka by alleviating underlying risk factors.</p></sec><sec id="Sec7" sec-type="supplementary-material"><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>
<supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM1"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4246_MOESM1_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Supplementary Material 1</p></caption></media></supplementary-material><supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM2"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4246_MOESM2_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Supplementary Material 2</p></caption></media></supplementary-material></p></sec></body><back><glossary><title>Abbreviations</title><def-list><def-item><term>CIN</term><def><p id="Par13">Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>LGSIL</term><def><p id="Par14">Low-Grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesion</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>HGSIL</term><def><p id="Par15">High-Grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesion</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>HPV</term><def><p id="Par16">Human papillomavirus</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>WWC</term><def><p id="Par17">Well Woman Clinic</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PHM</term><def><p id="Par18">Public Health Midwife</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PCR</term><def><p id="Par19">Polymerase Chain Reaction</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>RA</term><def><p id="Par20">Research Assistant</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>OR</term><def><p id="Par21">Odds Ratio</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CI</term><def><p id="Par22">Confidence Interval</p></def></def-item></def-list></glossary><fn-group><fn><p><bold>Publisher&#x02019;s Note</bold></p><p>Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.</p></fn></fn-group><ack><title>Acknowledgements
</title><p>We are grateful to the study participants, research assistants, and the Post Graduate Institute of Medicine, University of Colombo.</p></ack><notes notes-type="author-contribution"><title>Authors&#x02019; contributions
</title><p>KCMP participated in the design of the study cordinated data collection performed the statistical analysis, and drafted the version of the manuscript. HTCSA and NM participated in the design of the study. HTCSA has performed the statistical analysis and interpreted data. Both HTCSA and NM were helped to draft the manuscript. All three authors read and approved the final manuscript.</p></notes><notes notes-type="funding-information"><title>Funding</title><p>We hereby declare that the cost for specimen collection instruments and reagents (test kits) was funded by the Family Health Bureau, Colombo, Sri Lanka. There was no influence from the above-mentioned institute during the process of conducting or report writing of this research.</p></notes><notes notes-type="data-availability"><title>Data availability
</title><p>The datasets used to analyze this study are available at the corresponding author upon reasonable request.</p></notes><notes><title>Declarations</title><notes id="FPar1"><title>Ethics approval and consent to participate</title><p id="Par52">Ethical clearance was obtained from the Ethics Review Committee (ERC), National Institute of Health Science (NIHS), Kalutara, Sri Lanka (ref number NIHS/ERC/18/06R). Informed written consent was obtained from each of the selected participants in the field during the study. Confidentiality was maintained while handing over individual HPV/DNA result reports. Administrative clearance to conduct the study was obtained from the Provincial Director of Health Services/Western Province, the Regional Director of Health Services/Kalutara, district, the Director of the District General Hospital Kalutara and the Director/National Institute of Health Science Kalutara.</p></notes><notes id="FPar2"><title>Consent for publication</title><p id="Par53">Not applicable.</p></notes><notes id="FPar3" notes-type="COI-statement"><title>Competing interests
</title><p id="Par54">The authors declare no competing interests.</p></notes></notes><ref-list id="Bib1"><title>References
</title><ref id="CR1"><label>1.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR1" publication-type="book"><person-group person-group-type="author"><collab>World Health Organization</collab></person-group><source>Comprehensive cervical cancer control: a guide to essential practice</source><year>2014</year><edition>2</edition><publisher-loc>Geneva, Switzerland</publisher-loc><publisher-name>World Health Organization</publisher-name></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR1" publication-type="book">World Health Organization. Comprehensive cervical cancer control: a guide to essential practice. 2nd ed. Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization; 2014.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR2"><label>2.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR2" publication-type="book"><person-group person-group-type="author"><collab>World Health Organization</collab></person-group><source>Comprehensive cervical cancer control: a guide to essential practice</source><year>2006</year><publisher-loc>Geneva, Switzerland</publisher-loc><publisher-name>World Health Organization</publisher-name></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR2" publication-type="book">World Health Organization. Comprehensive cervical cancer control: a guide to essential practice. Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization; 2006.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR3"><label>3.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR3" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Stewart</surname><given-names>DE</given-names></name><name><surname>Gagliardi</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Johnston</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Howleff</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Barata</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Lewis</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>HPV Self-collection guidelines panel: self-collected samples for testing of oncogenic human papillomavirus: a systematic review</article-title><source>J Obst Gynec Can</source><year>2007</year><volume>29</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>817</fpage><lpage>828</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/S1701-2163(16)32636-6</pub-id><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17915065</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR3" publication-type="journal">Stewart DE, Gagliardi A, Johnston M, Howleff R, Barata P, Lewis N, et al. HPV Self-collection guidelines panel: self-collected samples for testing of oncogenic human papillomavirus: a systematic review. J Obst Gynec Can. 2007;29(10):817&#x02013;28.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17915065</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR4"><label>4.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR4" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Munoz</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Bosch</surname><given-names>FX</given-names></name><name><surname>De-Sanjose</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Herrero</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Castellsague</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Shah</surname><given-names>KV</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Epidemiological classification of human papillomavirus types associated with cervical cancer</article-title><source>Eng J Med</source><year>2003</year><volume>348</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>518</fpage><lpage>527</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1056/NEJMoa021641</pub-id></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR4" publication-type="journal">Munoz N, Bosch FX, De-Sanjose S, Herrero R, Castellsague X, Shah KV, et al. Epidemiological classification of human papillomavirus types associated with cervical cancer. Eng J Med. 2003;348(6):518&#x02013;27.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR5"><label>5.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR5" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Nejo</surname><given-names>YT</given-names></name><name><surname>Olaleye</surname><given-names>DO</given-names></name><name><surname>Odaibo</surname><given-names>GN</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Prevalence and risk factors for genital human papillomavirus infection among women in Southwest Nigeria</article-title><source>Arch Bas Appl Med</source><year>2018</year><volume>6</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>105</fpage><lpage>112</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR5" publication-type="journal">Nejo YT, Olaleye DO, Odaibo GN. Prevalence and risk factors for genital human papillomavirus infection among women in Southwest Nigeria. Arch Bas Appl Med. 2018;6(1):105&#x02013;12.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR6"><label>6.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Schiffman M, Clifford G, Buonaguro FM. Classification of weekly carcinogenic human papillomavirus types: addressing the limits of epidemiology at the borderline. Inf Agen Can. 2009; 4(8):&#x000a0;10.1186/1750-9378-4-8.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR7"><label>7.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Gamage D, Rajapaksha L, Abeysingha MRN, Desilva A. Prevalence of carcinogenic human papilloma virus infection and burden of cervical cancer attributable to it in the district of Gampaha. Sri Lanka: United Nations Population Fund; 2012.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR8"><label>8.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR8" publication-type="book"><person-group person-group-type="author"><collab>American Cancer Society</collab></person-group><source>Cancer facts and figures: Insuarance and cost-related barriers to cancer care</source><year>2008</year><publisher-loc>Atlanta, America</publisher-loc><publisher-name>American Cancer Society</publisher-name></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR8" publication-type="book">American Cancer Society. Cancer facts and figures: Insuarance and cost-related barriers to cancer care. Atlanta, America: American Cancer Society; 2008.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR9"><label>9.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other"> Gamage D, Rajapaksha L, Abeysingha MRN, Desilva A. Prevalence of carcinogenic human papilloma virus infection and burden of cervical cancer attributable to it in the district of Gampaha. Thesis MD Com Med Col SL: Postgraduate Institute of Medicine; 2009.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR10"><label>10.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Sankanarayanan, R.(Ed.). Human papillomavirus infection and cervical cancer prevention in India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and Nepal. IJC.2008;123(1): 153&#x02013;160.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR11"><label>11.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR11" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Silva</surname><given-names>KC</given-names></name><name><surname>Rosa</surname><given-names>ML</given-names></name><name><surname>Moyse</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Afonso</surname><given-names>LA</given-names></name><name><surname>Oliveira</surname><given-names>LH</given-names></name><name><surname>Cavalcanti</surname><given-names>SM</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Risk factors associated with human papillomavirus infection in two populations from Riodejaneiro, Brazil</article-title><source>Mem Inst Osw Cruz</source><year>2009</year><volume>104</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>885</fpage><lpage>891</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1590/S0074-02762009000600011</pub-id></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR11" publication-type="journal">Silva KC, Rosa ML, Moyse N, Afonso LA, Oliveira LH, Cavalcanti SM. Risk factors associated with human papillomavirus infection in two populations from Riodejaneiro, Brazil. Mem Inst Osw Cruz. 2009;104(6):885&#x02013;91.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR12"><label>12.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR12" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Duttagupta</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Sengupta</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Roy</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Sengupta</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Bhatachchaya</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Laikangbam</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Are Muslim women less susceptible to oncogenic human papillomavirus infection: a study from rural eastern India</article-title><source>IJGC.</source><year>2004</year><volume>14</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>293</fpage><lpage>303</lpage><?supplied-pmid 15086729?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15086729</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR12" publication-type="journal">Duttagupta C, Sengupta S, Roy M, Sengupta D, Bhatachchaya P, Laikangbam P, et al. Are Muslim women less susceptible to oncogenic human papillomavirus infection: a study from rural eastern India. IJGC. 2004;14(2):293&#x02013;303.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15086729</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR13"><label>13.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR13" publication-type="book"><person-group person-group-type="editor"><name><surname>Si-Liu</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><source>Prevalence and risk factors of human papillomavirus infection in Southern Chinese Women-A population based study</source><year>2011</year><publisher-loc>Sweden</publisher-loc><publisher-name>Karolinka Institute</publisher-name></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR13" publication-type="book">Si-Liu S, editor. Prevalence and risk factors of human papillomavirus infection in Southern Chinese Women-A population based study. Sweden: Karolinka Institute; 2011.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR14"><label>14.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Wei F.(Ed.).Human papillomavirus prevalence and associated factors in women and men in South China: a population-based study. Emerging Microbes &#x00026; Infectious. 2016; 5(11).0.1038/emi.2016.118.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR15"><label>15.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Arbyn M, Smith SB, Temin S, Sultana F, Castle P. Detecting cervical precancer and reducing under screened women by using HPV testing on self samples: Updated meta-analysis. BMJ. 2018; 363. 10.1136/bmj.k4823.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR16"><label>16.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR16" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Vinodhini</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Shanmugapriya</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Dac</surname><given-names>BC</given-names></name><name><surname>Natarajaseenivasan</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Prevalence and risk factors of HPV infection among women from various provinces of the world</article-title><source>Arch GynecolObstet</source><year>2012</year><volume>285</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>771</fpage><lpage>777</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1007/s00404-011-2155-8</pub-id></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR16" publication-type="journal">Vinodhini K, Shanmugapriya S, Dac BC, Natarajaseenivasan K. Prevalence and risk factors of HPV infection among women from various provinces of the world. Arch GynecolObstet. 2012;285(3):771&#x02013;7. 10.1007/s00404-011-2155-8.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR17"><label>17.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR17" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ersan</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Kose</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Senger</surname><given-names>SS</given-names></name><name><surname>Gunes</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Shehirali</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Garbuz</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The prevalence and risk factors of human papillomavirus in female sex workers</article-title><source>The Eurasian Journal of Medicine</source><year>2012</year><volume>45</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>16</fpage><lpage>20</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.5152/eajm.2013.03</pub-id></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR17" publication-type="journal">Ersan G, Kose S, Senger SS, Gunes H, Shehirali S, Garbuz I. The prevalence and risk factors of human papillomavirus in female sex workers. The Eurasian Journal of Medicine. 2012;45(1):16&#x02013;20.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR18"><label>18.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Thapa N, Maharjan M, Shrestha G, Maharjan, Petrini MA, Zuo N, et al.. Prevalence and type-specific distribution of human papillomavirus infection among women in mid-western rural, Nepal-A population-based study.BMC Infectious Disease.2018; 18(338).&#x000a0;10.1186/s12879-018-3175-9.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR19"><label>19.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR19" publication-type="book"><person-group person-group-type="author"><collab>World Health Organization</collab></person-group><source>Human papillomavirus and related disease report: Sri Lanka</source><year>2017</year><publisher-loc>Geneva, Switzerland</publisher-loc><publisher-name>World Health Organization</publisher-name></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR19" publication-type="book">World Health Organization. Human papillomavirus and related disease report: Sri Lanka. Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization; 2017.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref></ref-list></back></article>