# Physical activity, air pollution, and incident long-term conditions: a prospective cohort study.

<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//NLM//DTD JATS (Z39.96) Journal Archiving and Interchange DTD with MathML3 v1.3 20210610//EN" "JATS-archivearticle1-3-mathml3.dtd"> 
<article xmlns:ali="http://www.niso.org/schemas/ali/1.0/" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" article-type="research-article" dtd-version="1.3"><?properties open_access?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierValue -//Springer-Verlag//DTD A++ V2.4//EN?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierType public?><?SourceDTD.DTDName A++V2.4.dtd?><?SourceDTD.Version 2.4?><?ConverterInfo.XSLTName springer2nlmx2.xsl?><?ConverterInfo.Version 1?><processing-meta base-tagset="archiving" mathml-version="3.0" table-model="xhtml" tagset-family="jats"><restricted-by>pmc</restricted-by></processing-meta><front><journal-meta><journal-id journal-id-type="nlm-ta">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-id journal-id-type="iso-abbrev">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-title-group><journal-title>BMC Medicine</journal-title></journal-title-group><issn pub-type="epub">1741-7015</issn><publisher><publisher-name>BioMed Central</publisher-name><publisher-loc>London</publisher-loc></publisher></journal-meta>
<article-meta><article-id pub-id-type="pmcid">12374305</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="pmid">40847357</article-id>
<article-id pub-id-type="publisher-id">4338</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12916-025-04338-x</article-id><article-categories><subj-group subj-group-type="heading"><subject>Research</subject></subj-group></article-categories><title-group><article-title>Physical activity, air pollution, and incident long-term conditions: a prospective cohort study</article-title></title-group><contrib-group><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>Minshan</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Olsen</surname><given-names>Jonathan R.</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Trost</surname><given-names>Stewart G.</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Celis-Morales</surname><given-names>Carlos</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff4">4</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff5">5</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff6">6</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Pell</surname><given-names>Jill P.</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Ho</surname><given-names>Frederick K.</given-names></name><address><email>Frederick.Ho@glasgow.ac.uk</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><aff id="Aff1"><label>1</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/00vtgdb53</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.8756.c</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 2193 314X</institution-id><institution>School of Health and Wellbeing, </institution><institution>University of Glasgow, Clarice Pears Building, </institution></institution-wrap>90 Byres Road, Glasgow, G128TB UK </aff><aff id="Aff2"><label>2</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/00rqy9422</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.1003.2</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0000 9320 7537</institution-id><institution>Institute for Social Science Research, </institution><institution>The University of Queensland, </institution></institution-wrap>Brisbane, Australia </aff><aff id="Aff3"><label>3</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/00rqy9422</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.1003.2</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0000 9320 7537</institution-id><institution>School of Human Movement and Nutrition Sciences, </institution><institution>The University of Queensland, </institution></institution-wrap>Brisbane, Australia </aff><aff id="Aff4"><label>4</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/00vtgdb53</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.8756.c</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 2193 314X</institution-id><institution>School of Cardiovascular and Metabolic Health, </institution><institution>University of Glasgow, </institution></institution-wrap>Glasgow, UK </aff><aff id="Aff5"><label>5</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/04vdpck27</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.411964.f</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 2224 0804</institution-id><institution>Human Performance Lab, Education, Physical Activity and Health Research Unit, </institution><institution>University Cat&#x000f3;lica del Maule, </institution></institution-wrap>Talca, Chile </aff><aff id="Aff6"><label>6</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/01hrxxx24</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.412849.2</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0000 9153 4251</institution-id><institution>Centro de Investigaci&#x000f3;n en Medicina de Altura (CEIMA), </institution><institution>Universidad Arturo Prat, </institution></institution-wrap>Iquique, Chile </aff></contrib-group><pub-date pub-type="epub"><day>22</day><month>8</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="pmc-release"><day>22</day><month>8</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="collection"><year>2025</year></pub-date><volume>23</volume><elocation-id>491</elocation-id><history><date date-type="received"><day>17</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></date><date date-type="accepted"><day>11</day><month>8</month><year>2025</year></date></history><permissions><copyright-statement>&#x000a9; The Author(s) 2025</copyright-statement><copyright-year>2025</copyright-year><license><ali:license_ref specific-use="textmining" content-type="ccbylicense">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/</ali:license_ref><license-p><bold>Open Access</bold> This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article's Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article's Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/">http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/</ext-link>.</license-p></license></permissions><abstract id="Abs1"><sec><title>Background</title><p id="Par1">Physical activity (PA) is consistently associated with lower risk of long-term conditions. Preliminary evidence suggested the associations could be modified by air pollution. This study aims to examine whether air pollution levels modify the associations of PA with all-cause mortality and incident cancer, major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), type 2 diabetes, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).</p></sec><sec><title>Methods</title><p id="Par2">A total of 414,644 UK Biobank participants were included in the analyses. PA was self-reported and objectively measured using accelerometers. PA was self-reported with IPAQ and objectively measured using accelerometers. Annual PM<sub>2.5</sub>, PM<sub>10</sub>, and NO air pollutant concentrations in 2010 were measured using a European land use regression model. Cox proportional hazard models were used to examine the associations of PA and air pollution with health outcomes. Multiplicative and additive interactions were estimated.</p></sec><sec><title>Results</title><p id="Par3">During the study period from 2006 to 2022, 31,765 (7.7%) died, 70,299 (17.0%) had incident cancer, 25,130 (8.5%) had type 2 diabetes, 33,284 (8.0%) had MACE, and 18,844 (4.5%) had COPD. Lower PA was associated with higher risk of all&#x000a0;health outcomes. Higher concentration of PM<sub>2.5</sub> was associated with all outcomes except for cancer. The associations of self-reported PA with mortality and cancer were stronger in areas with higher air pollution with significant additive and multiplicative interactions. There was no evidence of moderation for objectively measured PA.</p></sec><sec><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par4">In the UK, air pollution should not be a factor inhibiting the promotion of PA.</p></sec><sec><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12916-025-04338-x.</p></sec></abstract><kwd-group xml:lang="en"><title>Keywords</title><kwd>Physical activity</kwd><kwd>Air pollution</kwd><kwd>Interaction</kwd></kwd-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>MRC</institution></funding-source><award-id>MC_UU_00022/4</award-id></award-group></funding-group><custom-meta-group><custom-meta><meta-name>issue-copyright-statement</meta-name><meta-value>&#x000a9; BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2025</meta-value></custom-meta></custom-meta-group></article-meta></front><body><sec id="Sec1"><title>Background</title><p id="Par22">Physical activity (PA) is modifiable lifestyle factor associated with all-cause mortality and a wide range of long-term conditions [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>], and causality has been largely confirmed through randomised controlled trials [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>] and Mendelian randomisation studies [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>]. However, there has been preliminary evidence suggesting that air pollution may be a modifying factor in the association between PA and health outcomes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>]. Studies have shown heterogenous results with PA being associated with higher respiratory disease risk [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>] but lower lung function [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>], in areas with higher air pollution. In a South Korean study, increasing PA level over time in areas with higher air pollution was found to be associated with higher cardiovascular disease risk. However, several studies in Denmark have shown consistent associations where PA was associated lower risk of&#x000a0;health outcomes irrespective of air pollution [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>].</p><p id="Par23">It is possible that the conflicting results reflect different levels of exposure to air pollution, but there has been no clear evidence from area with lower base air pollution apart from Denmark. In addition, important limitations exist in the current evidence base. It is known that people living in more deprived areas were disproportionally exposed to air pollutants [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>] and were more likely to develop long-term conditions [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>], suggesting possible confounding by social deprivation. Moreover, all existing evidence is based on self-reported PA data, which is subject to reporting bias [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>], and was found to be less sensitive in predicting health outcomes due to regression dilution bias [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>]. There have also been little data on air pollutants other than fine particulate matter (PM<sub>2.5</sub>) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>].
</p><p id="Par24">In order to address these limitations, we conducted a prospective cohort study using both self-reported and accelerometer-measured PA to examine whether the association of PA with all-cause mortality and the incidence of four relevant long-term conditions was modified by the concentrations of multiple air pollutants. Based on the Danish studies, we hypothesised that air pollution does not modify the association between PA and health outcomes.</p></sec><sec id="Sec2"><title>Methods</title><sec id="Sec3"><title>Study design and participants</title><p id="Par25">A prospective cohort study was conducted using UK Biobank data. A total of 502,366 participants were recruited between 2006 and 2010. The ages of the participants ranged from 37 to 73 years old. Participants attended one of 22 assessment centres across England, Scotland, and Wales. At the assessment centre, all participants underwent face-to-face interviews, completed a self-administered touchscreen questionnaire, and underwent a physical examination (including height, weight, and blood pressure) conducted by trained staff. Participants&#x02019; ethnicity, smoking status, and alcohol intake were all self-reported. Comorbidities and medical history were obtained from self-report of physician diagnoses and verified by staff during face-to-face interviews. This study was conducted under project 71,392.</p></sec><sec id="Sec4"><title>Measurements</title><sec id="Sec5"><title>Outcome variables: death and long-term conditions</title><p id="Par26">The outcomes of the study were all-cause mortality and incident long-term conditions: major adverse cardiovascular disease (MACE), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and type 2 diabetes (T2D). Death certificates were obtained from the National Health Service Information Centre (England and Wales) and the Scottish National Health Service Central Register (Scotland). Hospital admission records were obtained from the Health Episode Statistics (England and Wales) and Scottish Morbidity Records (Scotland). All linkages were undertaken by the UK Biobank and detailed procedures can be found at <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="http://content.digital.nhs.uk/services">http://content.digital.nhs.uk/services</ext-link>. Mortality data were available up to November 2022 at the time of analysis and hospital admission data were available up to October 2022 in England, August 2022 in Scotland, and May 2022 in Wales. Therefore, analysis of all-cause mortality and disease-specific outcomes were censored respectively at these dates or date of death if this occurred earlier. International Classification of Diseases Tenth Revision (ICD-10) codes were used to ascertain incidence of long-term conditions (hospitalisations or deaths) in this study. MACE was defined as incident myocardial infarction, heart failure, or stroke (ICD-10 codes: I11.0, I21, I42.0, I42.6&#x02013;42.7, I42.9, I50, I60&#x02013;64); COPD using ICD-10 codes J41&#x02013;44 and J47; T2D using ICD-10 code E11; and cancer using ICD-10 codes C00&#x02013;C97. Cancer registry was not used for this study because the data was outdated when the analysis was conducted.</p></sec><sec id="Sec6"><title>Exposure variable: physical activity</title><p id="Par27">Self-reported physical activity (PA) data were collected by UK Biobank via a touchscreen questionnaire, using the International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) Short Form [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>] to provide information on the frequency, intensity and duration of walking, moderate and vigorous activity. Data processing followed the guidelines published by IPAQ [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>]. The volume of PA was calculated by applying weights to the time spent on activities of different intensities to produce total physical activity in MET (metabolic equivalent of task)-hour/week.</p><p id="Par28">Accelerometer-measured PA was obtained using Axivity AX3 wrist-worn triaxial accelerometers worn by 103,686 UK Biobank participants between 2013 and 2015. Participants who provided an email address to UK Biobank were invited at random [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>]. The dominant wrist of each individual was used over a period of 7 days at 100 Hz, as has been described elsewhere [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>]. The 7161 participants with insufficient wear time (&#x0003c;&#x02009;72 h), missing data, or poor device calibration were excluded. A two-step approach based on random forest and raw acceleration was used to categorise time spent in light, moderate, and vigorous PA based on a method described previously [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR21">21</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR22">22</xref>]. In this study, the time spent in intensity-specific PA were combined to produce total MET-hour/week as 1.5 * LPA&#x02009;+&#x02009;4 * MPA&#x02009;+&#x02009;8 * VPA, where LPA, MPA, and VPA were weekly hour spent in light, moderate, and vigorous intensity PA.</p></sec><sec id="Sec7"><title>Moderator variable: air pollution</title><p id="Par29">Based on the European Study of Cohorts for Air Pollution Effects (ESCAPE) protocol, annual outdoor air pollutant concentrations at home addresses of cohort participants in 2010 were estimated using a European land use regression model, including PM&#x02009;&#x02264;&#x02009;10 &#x000b5;m (PM<sub>10</sub>), PM&#x02009;&#x02264;&#x02009;2.5 &#x000b5;m (PM<sub>2.5</sub>), PM 2.5&#x02013;10 &#x000b5;m (PM<sub>coarse</sub>), PM<sub>2.5</sub> filter absorbance, nitrogen oxides (NO<sub>x</sub>), and nitrogen dioxide (NO<sub>2</sub>) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>]. PM<sub>2.5</sub> filter absorbance was calculated using the measured filter reflectance using the ISO (International Standardization Organization) 9835 (1993) formula. Absorbance has previously been found to be highly correlated with elemental carbon [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>]. Land use regression models are a statistical method that uses multiple linear regression to analyse the association between pollutant concentrations measured at multiple monitoring points and predictors such as traffic, land use, and topography [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>]. Separate models had previously been conducted for PM and NO<sub>x</sub>. The PM model included measurements taken between 2008 and 2011 from 20 places in Europe with 20&#x02013;40 monitoring sites each [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR26">26</xref>]. These included two areas (39 sites) in the UK: Manchester and London/Oxford. Nitrogen oxides (NO<sub>2</sub> and NO<sub>x</sub>) were measured, between 2008 and 2011, in 20 European study regions, and NO<sub>x</sub> was measured in 36 regions, including three areas (119 sites) in the UK: Manchester, London/Oxford, and Bradford [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>]. The measurements were validated with acceptable leave-one-out-cross-validation root mean squared error, e.g.&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;1.4 &#x003bc;g/m<sup>3</sup> for PM<sub>2.5</sub> [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>] and&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;6.6 &#x003bc;g/m<sup>3</sup> for NO<sub>2</sub> [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>]. The overall <italic>R</italic><sup>2</sup> of the models were very good, e.g. 75%&#x02013;87% for NO<sub>2</sub> [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>]. We excluded 33,935 UK Biobank residents living in addresses for which pollution exposure could not be modelled.</p></sec><sec id="Sec8"><title>Covariates</title><p id="Par30">Prior knowledge and existing literature [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR27">27</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR31">31</xref>] were used to select potential confounders to include as covariates: age, sex, ethnicity, Townsend area deprivation index, smoking status, alcohol consumption, and diet quality. Age, sex, ethnicity, smoking status, alcohol consumption [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR32">32</xref>], and diet quality [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR33">33</xref>] were all based on self-report. Prevalent diseases are not included as covariates as it appears more likely that these were potential mediators (being caused by lack of/lower level of physical activity), where adjustment could lead to overadjustment bias.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec9"><title>Statistical analyses</title><p id="Par31">Descriptive statistics were used to compare demographic characteristics between the high and low physical activity groups (binary variable) for an easier interpretation. Higher PA level (&#x0003e;&#x02009;median) was used as the reference in the binary analyses to ensure correct estimation of additive interaction [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR34">34</xref>].</p><p id="Par32">Cox proportional hazard regression models were used to examine the associations of PA and air pollution with health outcomes. Hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were used to estimate the effect sizes. Follow-up started at the UK Biobank baseline assessment visit for self-reported PA and at the final date of accelerometer wear for objectively measured PA. Proportional hazard assumptions were checked via tests of the Schoenfeld residuals. None of the tests showed a significant violation of the assumptions.</p><p id="Par33">Both multiplicative and additive interactions (relative excess risk due to additive interaction [RERI]) were calculated for the binary PA and air pollution variables. The above analyses also were replicated treating PA and air pollution variables as numeric variables (scaled to their sample interquartile range [IQR]) since even though dichotomised variables could be easier to interpret they could lead to imprecise and underpowered estimation.</p><p id="Par34">The inferential analyses described above were conducted in the 10 imputed datasets using full conditional specification multiple imputation using chained equations to address missing data in covariates [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR35">35</xref>]. Rubin&#x02019;s rule was used to pool the findings from the 10 imputed data. Ten imputations were selected based on the 16% total missingness in the data [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR36">36</xref>]. PA and air pollution variables were dichotomised as above or below the sample median. Complete case analysis including all people with non-missing data was conducted as a sensitivity analysis. Analysis of self-reported PA was replicated among people with accelerometer data only. Statistical analyses were performed using R statistical software 4.3.0 with the packages <italic>mice</italic>, <italic>survival</italic>, and <italic>interactionR</italic>.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec10"><title>Results</title><p id="Par35">Of the 502,536 UK Biobank participants, 414,644 were eligible for this study (Additional file 1: Fig. S1). People included in this study were, on average, 2 years younger, less deprived, and had slightly more (1 MET-h/week self-report and 2 MET-h/week accelerometer-measured) PA (Additional file 1: Table S1). Of these, 86,838 had valid accelerometer-measured PA. During the study period, 31,765 (7.7%) died, 70,299 (17.0%) had incident cancer, 25,130 (8.5%) developed type 2 diabetes, 33,284 (8.0%) had MACE, and 18,844 (4.5%) developed COPD. In the total sample, the median self-reported PA physical activity was 26.0 MET-hours/week, and the median accelerometer-measured PA physical activity was 61.1 MET-hours/week. Participants who had higher PA were on average less deprived, had lower exposure to air pollution, consumed more alcohol, had better diets, and were less likely to smoke (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref>).
<table-wrap id="Tab1"><label>Table&#x000a0;1</label><caption><p>Characteristics of participants</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left" rowspan="2"/><th align="left"><bold>All participants</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>Self-reported PA</bold><break/><bold>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;median</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>Self-reported PA</bold><break/><bold>&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;median</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>Accelerometer-measured PA</bold><break/><bold>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;median</bold></th><th align="left"><bold>Accelerometer-measured PA</bold><break/><bold>&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;median</bold></th></tr><tr><th align="left"><italic>N</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;414,644</th><th align="left"><italic>N</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;207,322</th><th align="left"><italic>N</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;207,322</th><th align="left"><italic>N</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;43,433</th><th align="left"><italic>N</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;43,405</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">Median (IQR) ages (years)</td><td align="left">57.00 (50.00&#x02013;63.00)</td><td align="left">57.00 (50.00&#x02013;63.00)</td><td align="left">58.00 (50.00&#x02013;63.00)</td><td align="left">59.00 (52.00&#x02013;63.00)</td><td align="left">55.00 (48.00&#x02013;61.00)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Sex</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Female</td><td align="left">225,507 (54.4%)</td><td align="left">117,568 (56.7%)</td><td align="left">107,939 (52.1%)</td><td align="left">23,909 (55%)</td><td align="left">24,954 (57.5%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Male</td><td align="left">189,137 (45.6%)</td><td align="left">89,754 (43.3%)</td><td align="left">99,383 (47.9%)</td><td align="left">19,524 (45.0%)</td><td align="left">18,451 (42.5%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Ethnicity</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">White</td><td align="left">389,850 (94.0%)</td><td align="left">193,420 (93.3%)</td><td align="left">196,430 (94.7%)</td><td align="left">41,905 (96.5%)</td><td align="left">41,755 (96.2%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Black</td><td align="left">7057 (1.7%)</td><td align="left">3819 (1.8%)</td><td align="left">3238 (1.6%)</td><td align="left">336 (0.8%)</td><td align="left">456 (1.1%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">South Asian</td><td align="left">8507 (2.1%)</td><td align="left">5113 (2.5%)</td><td align="left">3394 (1.6%)</td><td align="left">465 (1.1%)</td><td align="left">437 (1.0%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Chinese</td><td align="left">1340 (0.3%)</td><td align="left">754 (0.4%)</td><td align="left">586 (0.3%)</td><td align="left">85 (0.2%)</td><td align="left">129 (0.3%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Others/mixed</td><td align="left">6421 (1.5%)</td><td align="left">3437 (1.7%)</td><td align="left">2984 (1.4%)</td><td align="left">484 (1.1%)</td><td align="left">519 (1.2%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Median (IQR) deprivation index</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;2.20 (&#x02212;&#x02009;3.67, 0.39)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;2.19 (&#x02212;&#x02009;3.67, 0.46)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;2.22 (&#x02212;&#x02009;3.66, 0.31)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;2.39 (&#x02212;&#x02009;3.78,&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;0.04)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;2.50 (&#x02212;&#x02009;3.83,&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;0.32)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Smoking status</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Never</td><td align="left">228,817 (55.2%)</td><td align="left">115,166 (55.5%)</td><td align="left">113,651 (54.8%)</td><td align="left">24,209 (55.7%)</td><td align="left">25,420 (58.6%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Previous</td><td align="left">142,123 (34.3%)</td><td align="left">69,244 (33.4%)</td><td align="left">72,879 (35.2%)</td><td align="left">15,824 (36.4%)</td><td align="left">15,176 (35.0%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Current</td><td align="left">42,293 (10.2%)</td><td align="left">22,111 (10.7%)</td><td align="left">20,182 (9.7%)</td><td align="left">3298 (7.6%)</td><td align="left">2733 (6.3%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Median (IQR) lifestyle factors</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Alcohol drinking (units/week)</td><td align="left">10.50 (2.76&#x02013;22.5)</td><td align="left">9.90 (1.50&#x02013;21.00)</td><td align="left">12.00 (3.00&#x02013;24.00)</td><td align="left">10.80 (3.00&#x02013;21.75)</td><td align="left">12.00 (4.50&#x02013;21.75)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Diet quality</td><td align="left">4.00 (3.00&#x02013;6.00)</td><td align="left">4.00 (3.00&#x02013;5.00)</td><td align="left">5.00 (3.00&#x02013;6.00)</td><td align="left">5.00 (3.00&#x02013;6.00)</td><td align="left">5.00 (4.00&#x02013;6.00)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Self-reported PA (MET-h/week)</td><td align="left">25.96 (10.95&#x02013;55.40)</td><td align="left">10.95 (4.65&#x02013;17.58)</td><td align="left">55.4 (37.55&#x02013;89.30)</td><td align="left">22.96 (9.90&#x02013;45.66)</td><td align="left">31.87 (15.23&#x02013;60.95)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Accelerometer-measured PA (MET-h/week)</td><td align="left">61.10 (46.00&#x02013;79.20)</td><td align="left">57.23 (42.98&#x02013;74.11)</td><td align="left">65.04 (49.29&#x02013;83.91)</td><td align="left">45.98 (36.32&#x02013;53.59)</td><td align="left">79.23 (69.18&#x02013;94.73)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Median (IQR) air pollution level</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">PM<sub>2.5</sub> absorbance</td><td align="left">1.13 (1.00&#x02013;1.30)</td><td align="left">1.13 (1.00&#x02013;1.31)</td><td align="left">1.12 (0.99&#x02013;1.30)</td><td align="left">1.12 (0.99&#x02013;1.31)</td><td align="left">1.11 (0.98&#x02013;1.29)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">PM<sub>2.5</sub></td><td align="left">9.93 (9.28&#x02013;10.56)</td><td align="left">9.94 (9.31&#x02013;10.57)</td><td align="left">9.91 (9.25&#x02013;10.55)</td><td align="left">9.88 (9.24&#x02013;10.51)</td><td align="left">9.83 (9.16&#x02013;10.46)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">PM<sub>coarse</sub></td><td align="left">6.11 (5.84&#x02013;6.64)</td><td align="left">6.11 (5.84&#x02013;6.64)</td><td align="left">6.10 (5.84&#x02013;6.63)</td><td align="left">6.10 (5.84&#x02013;6.63)</td><td align="left">6.09 (5.83&#x02013;6.60)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">PM<sub>10</sub></td><td align="left">16.02 (15.24&#x02013;17.01)</td><td align="left">16.04 (15.28&#x02013;17.02)</td><td align="left">16.01 (15.21&#x02013;16.99)</td><td align="left">16.02 (15.21&#x02013;17.00)</td><td align="left">15.98 (15.13&#x02013;16.94)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">NO<sub>2</sub></td><td align="left">26.07 (21.31&#x02013;31.18)</td><td align="left">26.23 (21.51&#x02013;31.31)</td><td align="left">25.91 (21.11&#x02013;31.05)</td><td align="left">25.74 (20.91&#x02013;31.06)</td><td align="left">25.29 (20.35&#x02013;30.65)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">NO<sub>x</sub></td><td align="left">42.13 (34.09&#x02013;50.67)</td><td align="left">42.35 (34.40&#x02013;50.81)</td><td align="left">41.90 (33.77&#x02013;50.52)</td><td align="left">41.46 (33.45&#x02013;50.06)</td><td align="left">40.83 (32.67&#x02013;49.41)</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>Numbers shown are <italic>n</italic> (%) unless otherwise specified. <italic>IQR</italic> interquartile range</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p><sec id="Sec11"><title>Associations between air pollution and outcomes</title><p id="Par36">Higher levels of PM<sub>2.5</sub>, but not PM<sub>10</sub> or PM<sub>coarse</sub>, were associated with all outcomes except for cancer (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>; Additional file 1: Table S2). The strongest association was with COPD (HR<sub>binary</sub> 1.07, 95% CI 1.04&#x02013;1.10; HR<sub>IQR</sub> 1.05; 95% CI 1.03&#x02013;1.07). NO<sub>x</sub>, but not NO<sub>2</sub>, was associated with higher risk for all outcomes, except for cancer, and the strongest association was with T2D (HR<sub>binary</sub> 1.07, 95% CI 1.05&#x02013;1.10; HR<sub>IQR</sub> 1.02; 95% CI 1.01&#x02013;1.04). PM<sub>2.5</sub> absorbance was associated with lower risk of all outcomes except for all-cause mortality and&#x000a0;cancer.<fig id="Fig1"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;1</label><caption><p>Association of air pollution level with health outcomes</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4338_Fig1_HTML" id="MO1"/></fig></p><p id="Par37">Higher air pollution was consistently associated with lower PA level, except for PM<sub>coarse</sub> and accelerometer-measured PA (Additional file 1: Table S3). Strongest association was observed in NO<sub>2</sub> and accelerometer-measured PA. Each IQR increase in NO<sub>2</sub> was associated with 1.64 MET-hours/week lower in PA.</p></sec><sec id="Sec12"><title>Associations between physical activity and outcomes</title><p id="Par38">Regardless of type of measurement or parameterisation, lower PA was associated with higher risk of health outcomes (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>; Additional file 1: Table S4). Generally, device-measured PA had a stronger association than self-reported PA; e.g. all-cause mortality HR<sub>ACC</sub> 1.41 versus HR<sub>SR</sub> 1.10 per IQR increase in PA. Of all health outcomes, the strongest association with accelerometer-measured PA was T2D (HR<sub>ACC</sub> 1.55; 95% CI 1.52&#x02013;1.58 per IQR increase in PA).<fig id="Fig2"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;2</label><caption><p>Association of physical activity level and health outcomes</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4338_Fig2_HTML" id="MO2"/></fig></p></sec><sec id="Sec13"><title>Associations between physical activity and outcomes by air pollution level</title><p id="Par39">The moderation role of air pollution on the association between self-reported PA and health outcomes is shown in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig3" ref-type="fig">3</xref> and Additional file 1: Table S5. Lower physical activity was associated with higher risk of health outcomes regardless of air pollution level. There was evidence of a positive, but weak, interaction between NO<sub>x</sub> and self-reported PA in relation to all-cause mortality (RERI 0.09, 95% CI 0.04, 0.14), COPD (RERI 0.08, 95% CI 0.02, 0.15), and cancer (RERI 0.05, 95% CI 0.02, 0.08), indicating that the associations between PA and these outcomes were stronger in areas with higher NO<sub>x</sub> levels. In contrast, there was evidence of a negative, but weak, interaction between NO<sub>2</sub> and PA in relation to T2D (RERI&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;0.06, 95% CI&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;0.12,&#x02009;&#x02212;&#x02009;0.004), suggesting the association between PA and T2D was slightly weaker in areas with higher NO<sub>2</sub> levels. However, none of these interactions was replicated when PA was measured using accelerometers (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig4" ref-type="fig">4</xref> and Additional file 1: Table S6). Complete case analyses (Additional file 1: Tables S7 and S8), analysis using continuous variables (Additional file 1: Tables S9 and S10), and analysis of self-reported PA variables among people with accelerometer data (Additional file 1: Table S11) showed similar results.<fig id="Fig3"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;3</label><caption><p>Additive interaction of lower self-reported physical activity and air pollution with health outcomes</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4338_Fig3_HTML" id="MO3"/></fig><fig id="Fig4"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;4</label><caption><p>Additive interaction of lower accelerometer-measured physical activity and air pollution with health outcomes</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4338_Fig4_HTML" id="MO4"/></fig></p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec14"><title>Discussion</title><sec id="Sec15"><title>Key results</title><p id="Par40">This study systematically explored whether air pollution modified the associations between PA and four relevant long-term conditions, as well as all-cause mortality. Overall, the associations between PA and health were much stronger than those between air pollution and health, suggesting the benefits from PA could outweigh the harms from air pollution. Furthermore, we found no strong evidence to suggest that, within the UK, the potential health benefits of PA were lower in areas with higher air pollution, even though there were consistent associations between air pollution and PA level.</p></sec><sec id="Sec16"><title>Interpretation</title><p id="Par41">The strongest association for PM<sub>2.5</sub> was with COPD which is consistent with existing research [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR37">37</xref>]. Exposure to PM<sub>2.5</sub> can directly induce inflammation in the pulmonary system, which is a primary mechanism of COPD [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR38">38</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR40">40</xref>]. The association of PM<sub>2.5</sub> with all-cause mortality and MACE has been reported in a large number of studies [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR41">41</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR43">43</xref>]. PM<sub>2.5</sub> may contribute to cardiovascular events by activating oxidative stress and inflammatory pathways [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR44">44</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR45">45</xref>]. Our study finding on NO<sub>X</sub> and type 2 diabetes was also consistent with the literature [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR46">46</xref>].</p><p id="Par42">This study found that higher levels of PA, whether self-reported or measured objectively, were associated with lower risk of health outcomes. The health benefits of PA have been replicated consistently [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR47">47</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR49">49</xref>]. We demonstrated stronger associations for objectively measured PA which verified the presence of regression dilution bias when self-reported PA is used. This difference between self-reported and accelerometer-based measures of PA may be explained by the fact that accelerometers can measure body activity more accurately and avoid recall or reporting bias [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR50">50</xref>]. Of all the long-term conditions included in the study, PA had the strongest association with type 2 diabetes. This is consistent with the findings of Coogan et al. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR51">51</xref>].</p><p id="Par43">We found little evidence to support any meaningful negative interaction between PA level and air pollution in relation to health outcomes. This finding is consistent with previous epidemiological studies conducted in Denmark where air pollution is generally&#x000a0;lower [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>]. However, it contrasts with a South Korean study which found that increasing PA over time was associated with higher CVD risk in area with high air pollution [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR52">52</xref>]. It should, however, be noted that the South Korean study defined higher air pollution as annual PM<sub>2.5</sub>&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;26.4 &#x000b5;g/m<sup>3</sup>, exceeding the maximum exposure of 21.3 &#x000b5;g/m<sup>3</sup> estimated in our study. Interestingly, a randomised controlled trial showed that a 2-h walking exercise resulted in immediate improvement in lung function but only if the exercise was done in a lower air pollution area [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR53">53</xref>]. The moderation role of air pollution may also be different in younger people. There have been studies that showed interactions between PA and air pollution in relation to asthma [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>] and cardiorespiratory fitness [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>] in children. There was some evidence for positive interaction between air pollution and self-reported PA, where people in higher air pollution areas could be particularly susceptible to the health risk due to low PA. However, since these findings were not replicable in objectively measured PA, it could simply be measurement biases associated with socioeconomic background (since socioeconomic background is also associated with air pollution), or spurious findings due to multiple testing.</p></sec><sec id="Sec17"><title>Strengths and limitations</title><p id="Par44">A strength of this study was the use of both self-reported and accelerometer-measured physical activity, a series of validated air pollution measures and multiple outcome measures. The large sample size provided sufficient statistical power to detect any meaningful interactions (&#x000b1;&#x02009;7% for multiplicative and&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8% additive interaction). However, this study also has some limitations. Firstly, since UK Biobank only provides participants&#x02019; residential address at baseline, the estimation of exposure to air pollution was based on exposure at home at baseline and did not take account of subsequent relocation or exposures at other places, such as work, and indoor air pollution for individuals who take part in indoor physical activity. However, it would not have been feasible to have personalised air pollution monitor for a population cohort of this size, which is essential for statistical power for rarer health outcomes. There are now air pollution indices from newer models, e.g. those from DEFRA, which in theory could provide time-varying estimates, but it is currently not available routinely in UK Biobank. Furthermore, air pollution and physical activity were not measured at the same time. Both of these measurement issues would likely to result in non-differential misclassification which could underestimate the associations. Secondly, despite the sample size, the numbers of site-specific cancers in UK Biobank, especially for those with accelerometer data, are small, limiting us from examining the associations for those outcomes. Thirdly, as with all observational studies, associations cannot be assumed to be causal and, in spite of adjusting for a range of confounders, residual confounding cannot be ruled out. This is particularly the case as we decided not to adjust for prevalent diseases to avoid overadjustment bias, even though prevalent diseases could lead to less physical activity. Future studies with repeated measures of physical activity could potentially explore&#x000a0;such relationship. Fourthly, the study included air pollutants agnostically and therefore conducted a larger number of tests. Inflation of family-wise type 1 error is possible and could explain some of the statistically significant findings. Fifthly, UK Biobank has a healthy volunteer bias and some findings might not be generalisable to the UK population. Sixthly, due to computational difficulties we were not able to conduct more imputations, which could affect the power to detect associations and interactions. Lastly, all data in this study were based on the UK. The findings of this study may not be applicable to other regions with different climates and different levels or distribution of air pollution.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec18"><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par45">This study showed that, in the UK, PA levels were consistently associated with lower risk of long-term conditions and mortality, even in areas with higher air pollution levels. Whilst air pollution is harmful to health and should be reduced, PA should be promoted regardless of air pollution levels.</p></sec><sec id="Sec19" sec-type="supplementary-material"><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>
<supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM1"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4338_MOESM1_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Additional file 1: Figure S1; Tables S1&#x02013;S11. Fig. S1 Participant flowchart. Table S1 Comparison of UK Biobank participant characteristics by inclusion. Table S2 Association between air pollution and physical activity level. Table S3 Association of air pollution level with health outcomes. Table S4 Association of physical activity level and health outcomes. Table S5 Association between lower self-reported physical activity level and health outcomes by air pollution level. Table S6 Association between lower accelerometer-measured physical activity level and health outcomes by air pollution level. Table S7 Association between self-reported lower physical activity level and health outcomes by air pollution level in complete case analysis. Table S8 Association between accelerometer-measured lower physical activity level. Table S9 Association between per IQR decrease in self-reported physical activity level and health outcomes by air pollution level. Table S10 Association between per IQR decrease in accelerometer-measured physical activity level and health outcomes by air pollution level. Table S11 Association between lower self-reported physical activity level and health outcomes by air pollution level among people with valid accelerometer data.</p></caption></media></supplementary-material></p></sec></body><back><glossary><title>Abbreviations</title><def-list><def-item><term>COPD</term><def><p id="Par5">Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>IPAQ</term><def><p id="Par6">International Physical Activity Questionnaire</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>HR</term><def><p id="Par7">Hazard ratio</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>IQR</term><def><p id="Par8">Interquartile range</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>LPA</term><def><p id="Par9">Light intensity physical activity</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MACE</term><def><p id="Par10">Major adverse cardiovascular events</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MPA</term><def><p id="Par11">Moderate intensity physical activity</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MET</term><def><p id="Par12">Metabolic equivalent of task</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>NO<sub>x</sub></term><def><p id="Par13">Nitrogen oxides</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>NO<sub>2</sub></term><def><p id="Par14">Nitrogen dioxide</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PA</term><def><p id="Par15">Physical activity</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PM<sub>2.5</sub></term><def><p id="Par16">Particulate matters less than 2.5 &#x000b5;m in diameter</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PM<sub>10</sub></term><def><p id="Par17">Particulate matters less than 10 &#x000b5;m in diameter</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PM<sub>coarse</sub></term><def><p id="Par18">Particulate matters between 2.5 and 10 &#x000b5;m in diameter</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>RERI</term><def><p id="Par19">Relative excess risk of additive interaction</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>T2D</term><def><p id="Par20">Type 2 diabetes</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>VPA</term><def><p id="Par21">Vigorous intensity physical activity</p></def></def-item></def-list></glossary><fn-group><fn><p><bold>Publisher's Note</bold></p><p>Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.</p></fn></fn-group><ack><title>Acknowledgements
</title><p>The authors thank all UK Biobank participants.</p></ack><notes notes-type="author-contribution"><title>Authors&#x02019;&#x000a0;contributions
</title><p>MH analysed the data and drafted the manuscript. FKH conceptualised the idea, designed the study, and supervised the analysis. JO designed the study, interpreted the data and critically revised the manuscript. ST, CCM, JPP, and FKH interpreted the data and critically revised the manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.</p></notes><notes notes-type="funding-information"><title>Funding</title><p>JO was employed by the MRC/CSO Social and Public Health Sciences Unit, University of Glasgow, and supported by the Medical Research Council (grant number MC_UU_00022/4) and Chief Scientist Office (grant number SPHSU19).</p></notes><notes notes-type="data-availability"><title>Data availability
</title><p>Request of data can be made to the UK Biobank ( [<ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://www.ukbiobank.ac.uk/">https://www.ukbiobank.ac.uk/</ext-link>](<ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://www.ukbiobank.ac.uk">https://www.ukbiobank.ac.uk</ext-link>) ). R codes for this paper can be found on Github ( [<ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://github.com/fredho-42/PA-AQL-BMJMed2025">https://github.com/fredho-42/PA-AQL-BMJMed2025</ext-link>](<ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://github.com/fredho-42/PA-AQL-BMJMed2025">https://github.com/fredho-42/PA-AQL-BMJMed2025</ext-link>) ).</p></notes><notes><title>Declarations</title><notes id="FPar2"><title>Ethics approval and consent to participate</title><p id="Par46">UK Biobank received ethical approval by North West Multi-centre Research Ethics Committee (21/NW/0157). Patients or the public were not involved in the design, or conduct, or reporting, or dissemination plans of our research.</p><p id="Par47">All participants provided written consent to this study.</p></notes><notes id="FPar4"><title>Consent for publication</title><p id="Par48">No individual person&#x02019;s data.</p></notes><notes id="FPar5" notes-type="COI-statement"><title>Competing interests
</title><p id="Par49">The authors declare no competing interests.</p></notes></notes><ref-list id="Bib1"><title>References
</title><ref id="CR1"><label>1.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR1" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ekelund</surname><given-names>U</given-names></name><name><surname>Brown</surname><given-names>WJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Steene-Johannessen</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Fagerland</surname><given-names>MW</given-names></name><name><surname>Owen</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Powell</surname><given-names>KE</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Do the associations of sedentary behaviour with cardiovascular disease mortality and cancer mortality differ by physical activity level? A systematic review and harmonised meta-analysis of data from 850 060 participants</article-title><source>Br J Sports Med</source><year>2019</year><volume>53</volume><issue>14</issue><fpage>886</fpage><lpage>94</lpage><?supplied-pmid 29991570?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29991570</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR1" publication-type="journal">Ekelund U, Brown WJ, Steene-Johannessen J, Fagerland MW, Owen N, Powell KE, et al. Do the associations of sedentary behaviour with cardiovascular disease mortality and cancer mortality differ by physical activity level? A systematic review and harmonised meta-analysis of data from 850 060 participants. Br J Sports Med. 2019;53(14):886&#x02013;94.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29991570</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR2"><label>2.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR2" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lugo</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Pulido</surname><given-names>AL</given-names></name><name><surname>Mihos</surname><given-names>CG</given-names></name><name><surname>Issa</surname><given-names>O</given-names></name><name><surname>Cusnir</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Horvath</surname><given-names>SA</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The effects of physical activity on cancer prevention, treatment and prognosis: a review of the literature</article-title><source>Complement Ther Med</source><year>2019</year><volume>44</volume><fpage>9</fpage><lpage>13</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31126580?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31126580</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR2" publication-type="journal">Lugo D, Pulido AL, Mihos CG, Issa O, Cusnir M, Horvath SA, et al. The effects of physical activity on cancer prevention, treatment and prognosis: a review of the literature. Complement Ther Med. 2019;44:9&#x02013;13.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31126580</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR3"><label>3.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR3" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>BH</given-names></name><name><surname>Duncan</surname><given-names>MJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Cistulli</surname><given-names>PA</given-names></name><name><surname>Nassar</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Hamer</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Stamatakis</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Sleep and physical activity in relation to all-cause, cardiovascular disease and cancer mortality risk</article-title><source>Br J Sports Med</source><year>2022</year><volume>56</volume><issue>13</issue><fpage>718</fpage><lpage>724</lpage><?supplied-pmid 34187783?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34187783</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR3" publication-type="journal">Huang BH, Duncan MJ, Cistulli PA, Nassar N, Hamer M, Stamatakis E. Sleep and physical activity in relation to all-cause, cardiovascular disease and cancer mortality risk. Br J Sports Med. 2022;56(13):718&#x02013;24.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34187783</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR4"><label>4.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR4" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ekelund</surname><given-names>U</given-names></name><name><surname>Sanchez-Lastra</surname><given-names>MA</given-names></name><name><surname>Dalene</surname><given-names>KE</given-names></name><name><surname>Tarp</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Dose-response associations, physical activity intensity and mortality risk: a narrative review</article-title><source>J Sport Health Sci</source><year>2024</year><volume>13</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>24</fpage><lpage>9</lpage><?supplied-pmid 37734548?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37734548</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR4" publication-type="journal">Ekelund U, Sanchez-Lastra MA, Dalene KE, Tarp J. Dose-response associations, physical activity intensity and mortality risk: a narrative review. J Sport Health Sci. 2024;13(1):24&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37734548</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR5"><label>5.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR5" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Schaffer</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Panneerselvam</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Loh</surname><given-names>KP</given-names></name><name><surname>Herrmann</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Kleckner</surname><given-names>IR</given-names></name><name><surname>Dunne</surname><given-names>RF</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Systematic review of randomized controlled trials of exercise interventions using digital activity trackers in patients with cancer</article-title><source>J Natl Compr Canc Netw</source><year>2019</year><volume>17</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>57</fpage><lpage>63</lpage><?supplied-pmid 30659130?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30659130</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR5" publication-type="journal">Schaffer K, Panneerselvam N, Loh KP, Herrmann R, Kleckner IR, Dunne RF, et al. Systematic review of randomized controlled trials of exercise interventions using digital activity trackers in patients with cancer. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2019;17(1):57&#x02013;63.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30659130</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR6"><label>6.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR6" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Krehbiel</surname><given-names>LM</given-names></name><name><surname>Layne</surname><given-names>AS</given-names></name><name><surname>Sandesara</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Manini</surname><given-names>TM</given-names></name><name><surname>Anton</surname><given-names>SD</given-names></name><name><surname>Buford</surname><given-names>TW</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Wearable technology to reduce sedentary behavior and CVD risk in older adults: design of a randomized controlled trial</article-title><source>Contemp Clin Trials Commun</source><year>2017</year><volume>6</volume><fpage>122</fpage><lpage>126</lpage><?supplied-pmid 28944304?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28944304</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR6" publication-type="journal">Krehbiel LM, Layne AS, Sandesara B, Manini TM, Anton SD, Buford TW. Wearable technology to reduce sedentary behavior and CVD risk in older adults: design of a randomized controlled trial. Contemp Clin Trials Commun. 2017;6:122&#x02013;6.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28944304</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR7"><label>7.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR7" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Emmerich</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Pillon</surname><given-names>NJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Moore</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Hemerich</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Cornelis</surname><given-names>MC</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Genome-wide association analyses of physical activity and sedentary behavior provide insights into underlying mechanisms and roles in disease prevention</article-title><source>Nat Genet</source><year>2022</year><volume>54</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>1332</fpage><lpage>44</lpage><?supplied-pmid 36071172?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36071172</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR7" publication-type="journal">Wang Z, Emmerich A, Pillon NJ, Moore T, Hemerich D, Cornelis MC, et al. Genome-wide association analyses of physical activity and sedentary behavior provide insights into underlying mechanisms and roles in disease prevention. Nat Genet. 2022;54(9):1332&#x02013;44.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36071172</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR8"><label>8.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR8" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Theodoratou</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Farrington</surname><given-names>SM</given-names></name><name><surname>Law</surname><given-names>PJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Broderick</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Genetically predicted physical activity levels are associated with lower colorectal cancer risk: a Mendelian randomisation study</article-title><source>Br J Cancer</source><year>2021</year><volume>124</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>1330</fpage><lpage>8</lpage><?supplied-pmid 33510439?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33510439</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR8" publication-type="journal">Zhang X, Theodoratou E, Li X, Farrington SM, Law PJ, Broderick P, et al. Genetically predicted physical activity levels are associated with lower colorectal cancer risk: a Mendelian randomisation study. Br J Cancer. 2021;124(7):1330&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33510439</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR9"><label>9.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR9" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Tainio</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Jovanovic Andersen</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Nieuwenhuijsen</surname><given-names>MJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Hu</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>de Nazelle</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>An</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Air pollution, physical activity and health: a mapping review of the evidence</article-title><source>Environ Int</source><year>2021</year><volume>147</volume><fpage>105954</fpage><?supplied-pmid 33352412?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33352412</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR9" publication-type="journal">Tainio M, Jovanovic Andersen Z, Nieuwenhuijsen MJ, Hu L, de Nazelle A, An R, et al. Air pollution, physical activity and health: a mapping review of the evidence. Environ Int. 2021;147: 105954.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33352412</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR10"><label>10.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR10" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>McConnell</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Berhane</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Gilliland</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>London</surname><given-names>SJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Islam</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Gauderman</surname><given-names>WJ</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Asthma in exercising children exposed to ozone: a cohort study</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2002</year><volume>359</volume><issue>9304</issue><fpage>386</fpage><lpage>91</lpage><?supplied-pmid 11844508?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">11844508</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR10" publication-type="journal">McConnell R, Berhane K, Gilliland F, London SJ, Islam T, Gauderman WJ, et al. Asthma in exercising children exposed to ozone: a cohort study. Lancet. 2002;359(9304):386&#x02013;91.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">11844508</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR11"><label>11.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR11" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Yu</surname><given-names>IT</given-names></name><name><surname>Wong</surname><given-names>TW</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>HJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Impact of air pollution on cardiopulmonary fitness in schoolchildren</article-title><source>J Occup Environ Med</source><year>2004</year><volume>46</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>946</fpage><lpage>952</lpage><?supplied-pmid 15354060?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15354060</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR11" publication-type="journal">Yu IT, Wong TW, Liu HJ. Impact of air pollution on cardiopulmonary fitness in schoolchildren. J Occup Environ Med. 2004;46(9):946&#x02013;52.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15354060</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR12"><label>12.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR12" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Andersen</surname><given-names>ZJ</given-names></name><name><surname>de Nazelle</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Mendez</surname><given-names>MA</given-names></name><name><surname>Garcia-Aymerich</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Hertel</surname><given-names>O</given-names></name><name><surname>Tjonneland</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>A study of the combined effects of physical activity and air pollution on mortality in elderly urban residents: the Danish diet, cancer, and health cohort</article-title><source>Environ Health Perspect</source><year>2015</year><volume>123</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>557</fpage><lpage>563</lpage><?supplied-pmid 25625237?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25625237</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR12" publication-type="journal">Andersen ZJ, de Nazelle A, Mendez MA, Garcia-Aymerich J, Hertel O, Tjonneland A, et al. A study of the combined effects of physical activity and air pollution on mortality in elderly urban residents: the Danish diet, cancer, and health cohort. Environ Health Perspect. 2015;123(6):557&#x02013;63.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25625237</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR13"><label>13.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR13" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kubesch</surname><given-names>NJ</given-names></name><name><surname>J&#x000f8;rgensen</surname><given-names>JT</given-names></name><name><surname>Hoffmann</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Loft</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Nieuwenhuijsen</surname><given-names>MJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Raaschou-Nielsen</surname><given-names>O</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Effects of leisure-time and transport-related physical activities on the risk of incident and recurrent myocardial infarction and interaction with traffic-related air pollution: a cohort study</article-title><source>J Am Heart Assoc</source><year>2018</year><volume>7</volume><issue>15</issue><fpage>e009554</fpage><?supplied-pmid 30021805?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30021805</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR13" publication-type="journal">Kubesch NJ, J&#x000f8;rgensen JT, Hoffmann B, Loft S, Nieuwenhuijsen MJ, Raaschou-Nielsen O, et al. Effects of leisure-time and transport-related physical activities on the risk of incident and recurrent myocardial infarction and interaction with traffic-related air pollution: a cohort study. J Am Heart Assoc. 2018;7(15): e009554.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30021805</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR14"><label>14.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR14" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Fisher</surname><given-names>JE</given-names></name><name><surname>Loft</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Ulrik</surname><given-names>CS</given-names></name><name><surname>Raaschou-Nielsen</surname><given-names>O</given-names></name><name><surname>Hertel</surname><given-names>O</given-names></name><name><surname>Tj&#x000f8;nneland</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Physical activity, air pollution, and the risk of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease</article-title><source>Am J Respir Crit Care Med</source><year>2016</year><volume>194</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>855</fpage><lpage>65</lpage><?supplied-pmid 27653737?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27653737</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR14" publication-type="journal">Fisher JE, Loft S, Ulrik CS, Raaschou-Nielsen O, Hertel O, Tj&#x000f8;nneland A, et al. Physical activity, air pollution, and the risk of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2016;194(7):855&#x02013;65.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27653737</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR15"><label>15.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR15" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Brunt</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Barnes</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Jones</surname><given-names>SJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Longhurst</surname><given-names>JWS</given-names></name><name><surname>Scally</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Hayes</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Air pollution, deprivation and health: understanding relationships to add value to local air quality management policy and practice in Wales, UK</article-title><source>J Public Health</source><year>2017</year><volume>39</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>485</fpage><lpage>497</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR15" publication-type="journal">Brunt H, Barnes J, Jones SJ, Longhurst JWS, Scally G, Hayes E. Air pollution, deprivation and health: understanding relationships to add value to local air quality management policy and practice in Wales, UK. J Public Health. 2017;39(3):485&#x02013;97.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR16"><label>16.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR16" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Foster</surname><given-names>HME</given-names></name><name><surname>Celis-Morales</surname><given-names>CA</given-names></name><name><surname>Nicholl</surname><given-names>BI</given-names></name><name><surname>Petermann-Rocha</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Pell</surname><given-names>JP</given-names></name><name><surname>Gill</surname><given-names>JMR</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The effect of socioeconomic deprivation on the association between an extended measurement of unhealthy lifestyle factors and health outcomes: a prospective analysis of the UK Biobank cohort</article-title><source>Lancet Public Health</source><year>2018</year><volume>3</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>e576</fpage><lpage>e585</lpage><?supplied-pmid 30467019?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30467019</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR16" publication-type="journal">Foster HME, Celis-Morales CA, Nicholl BI, Petermann-Rocha F, Pell JP, Gill JMR, et al. The effect of socioeconomic deprivation on the association between an extended measurement of unhealthy lifestyle factors and health outcomes: a prospective analysis of the UK Biobank cohort. Lancet Public Health. 2018;3(12):e576&#x02013;85.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30467019</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR17"><label>17.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR17" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Brenner</surname><given-names>PS</given-names></name><name><surname>DeLamater</surname><given-names>JD</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Social desirability bias in self-reports of physical activity: is an exercise identity the culprit?</article-title><source>Soc Indic Res</source><year>2014</year><volume>117</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>489</fpage><lpage>504</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR17" publication-type="journal">Brenner PS, DeLamater JD. Social desirability bias in self-reports of physical activity: is an exercise identity the culprit? Soc Indic Res. 2014;117(2):489&#x02013;504.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR18"><label>18.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR18" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Hutcheon</surname><given-names>JA</given-names></name><name><surname>Chiolero</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Hanley</surname><given-names>JA</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Random measurement error and regression dilution bias</article-title><source>BMJ</source><year>2010</year><?supplied-pmid 20573762?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20573762</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR18" publication-type="journal">Hutcheon JA, Chiolero A, Hanley JA. Random measurement error and regression dilution bias. BMJ. 2010. 10.1136/bmj.c2289.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20573762</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR19"><label>19.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR19" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Craig</surname><given-names>CL</given-names></name><name><surname>Marshall</surname><given-names>AL</given-names></name><name><surname>Sj&#x000f6;str&#x000f6;m</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Bauman</surname><given-names>AE</given-names></name><name><surname>Booth</surname><given-names>ML</given-names></name><name><surname>Ainsworth</surname><given-names>BE</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>International physical activity questionnaire: 12-country reliability and validity</article-title><source>Med Sci Sports Exerc</source><year>2003</year><volume>35</volume><issue>8</issue><fpage>1381</fpage><lpage>1395</lpage><?supplied-pmid 12900694?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">12900694</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR19" publication-type="journal">Craig CL, Marshall AL, Sj&#x000f6;str&#x000f6;m M, Bauman AE, Booth ML, Ainsworth BE, et al. International physical activity questionnaire: 12-country reliability and validity. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2003;35(8):1381&#x02013;95.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">12900694</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR20"><label>20.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR20" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Doherty</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Jackson</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Hammerla</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Pl&#x000f6;tz</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Olivier</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Granat</surname><given-names>MH</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Large scale population assessment of physical activity using wrist worn accelerometers: the UK biobank study</article-title><source>PLoS One</source><year>2017</year><volume>12</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>e0169649</fpage><?supplied-pmid 28146576?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28146576</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR20" publication-type="journal">Doherty A, Jackson D, Hammerla N, Pl&#x000f6;tz T, Olivier P, Granat MH, et al. Large scale population assessment of physical activity using wrist worn accelerometers: the UK biobank study. PLoS One. 2017;12(2): e0169649.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28146576</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR21"><label>21.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR21" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ahmadi</surname><given-names>MN</given-names></name><name><surname>Clare</surname><given-names>PJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Katzmarzyk</surname><given-names>PT</given-names></name><name><surname>del Pozo Cruz</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>IM</given-names></name><name><surname>Stamatakis</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Vigorous physical activity, incident heart disease, and cancer: how little is enough?</article-title><source>Eur Heart J</source><year>2022</year><volume>43</volume><issue>46</issue><fpage>4801</fpage><lpage>14</lpage><?supplied-pmid 36302460?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36302460</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR21" publication-type="journal">Ahmadi MN, Clare PJ, Katzmarzyk PT, del Pozo Cruz B, Lee IM, Stamatakis E. Vigorous physical activity, incident heart disease, and cancer: how little is enough? Eur Heart J. 2022;43(46):4801&#x02013;14.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36302460</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR22"><label>22.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR22" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Pavey</surname><given-names>TG</given-names></name><name><surname>Gilson</surname><given-names>ND</given-names></name><name><surname>Gomersall</surname><given-names>SR</given-names></name><name><surname>Clark</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Trost</surname><given-names>SG</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Field evaluation of a random forest activity classifier for wrist-worn accelerometer data</article-title><source>J Sci Med Sport</source><year>2017</year><volume>20</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>75</fpage><lpage>80</lpage><?supplied-pmid 27372275?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27372275</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR22" publication-type="journal">Pavey TG, Gilson ND, Gomersall SR, Clark B, Trost SG. Field evaluation of a random forest activity classifier for wrist-worn accelerometer data. J Sci Med Sport. 2017;20(1):75&#x02013;80.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27372275</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR23"><label>23.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR23" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Eeftens</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Beelen</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>de Hoogh</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Bellander</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Cesaroni</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Cirach</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Development of land use regression models for PM<sub>2.5</sub>, PM<sub>2.5</sub> absorbance, PM<sub>10</sub> and PM<sub>coarse</sub> in 20 European study areas; results of the ESCAPE project</article-title><source>Environ Sci Technol</source><year>2012</year><volume>46</volume><issue>20</issue><fpage>11195</fpage><lpage>205</lpage><?supplied-pmid 22963366?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22963366</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR23" publication-type="journal">Eeftens M, Beelen R, de Hoogh K, Bellander T, Cesaroni G, Cirach M, et al. Development of land use regression models for PM<sub>2.5</sub>, PM<sub>2.5</sub> absorbance, PM<sub>10</sub> and PM<sub>coarse</sub> in 20 European study areas; results of the ESCAPE project. Environ Sci Technol. 2012;46(20):11195&#x02013;205.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22963366</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR24"><label>24.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR24" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Beelen</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Hoek</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Vienneau</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Eeftens</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Dimakopoulou</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Pedeli</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Development of NO2 and NOx land use regression models for estimating air pollution exposure in 36 study areas in Europe &#x02013; the ESCAPE project</article-title><source>Atmos Environ</source><year>2013</year><volume>72</volume><fpage>10</fpage><lpage>23</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR24" publication-type="journal">Beelen R, Hoek G, Vienneau D, Eeftens M, Dimakopoulou K, Pedeli X, et al. Development of NO2 and NOx land use regression models for estimating air pollution exposure in 36 study areas in Europe &#x02013; the ESCAPE project. Atmos Environ. 2013;72:10&#x02013;23.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR25"><label>25.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR25" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Cyrys</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Heinrich</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Hoek</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Meliefste</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Lewn&#x000e9;</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Gehring</surname><given-names>U</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Comparison between different traffic-related particle indicators: elemental carbon (EC), PM2.5 mass, and absorbance</article-title><source>J Expo Sci Environ Epidemiol</source><year>2003</year><volume>13</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>134</fpage><lpage>43</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR25" publication-type="journal">Cyrys J, Heinrich J, Hoek G, Meliefste K, Lewn&#x000e9; M, Gehring U, et al. Comparison between different traffic-related particle indicators: elemental carbon (EC), PM2.5 mass, and absorbance. J Expo Sci Environ Epidemiol. 2003;13(2):134&#x02013;43.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR26"><label>26.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR26" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Henderson</surname><given-names>SB</given-names></name><name><surname>Beckerman</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Jerrett</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Brauer</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Application of land use regression to estimate long-term concentrations of traffic-related nitrogen oxides and fine particulate matter</article-title><source>Environ Sci Technol</source><year>2007</year><volume>41</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>2422</fpage><lpage>2428</lpage><?supplied-pmid 17438795?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17438795</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR26" publication-type="journal">Henderson SB, Beckerman B, Jerrett M, Brauer M. Application of land use regression to estimate long-term concentrations of traffic-related nitrogen oxides and fine particulate matter. Environ Sci Technol. 2007;41(7):2422&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17438795</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR27"><label>27.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR27" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Schultz</surname><given-names>WM</given-names></name><name><surname>Kelli</surname><given-names>HM</given-names></name><name><surname>Lisko</surname><given-names>JC</given-names></name><name><surname>Varghese</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Shen</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Sandesara</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Socioeconomic status and cardiovascular outcomes: challenges and interventions</article-title><source>Circulation</source><year>2018</year><volume>137</volume><issue>20</issue><fpage>2166</fpage><lpage>78</lpage><?supplied-pmid 29760227?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29760227</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR27" publication-type="journal">Schultz WM, Kelli HM, Lisko JC, Varghese T, Shen J, Sandesara P, et al. Socioeconomic status and cardiovascular outcomes: challenges and interventions. Circulation. 2018;137(20):2166&#x02013;78.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29760227</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR28"><label>28.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health. How Tobacco Smoke Causes Disease: The Biology and Behavioral Basis for Smoking-Attributable Disease : a report of the Surgeon General. Atlanta (GA): Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (US); 2010.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR29"><label>29.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Low cigarette consumption and risk of coronary heart disease and stroke: meta-analysis of 141 cohort studies in 55 study reports. BMJ. 2018;361:k1611-k.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR30"><label>30.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR30" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ruidavets</surname><given-names>J-B</given-names></name><name><surname>Ducimeti&#x000e8;re</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Evans</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Montaye</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Haas</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Bingham</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Patterns of alcohol consumption and ischaemic heart disease in culturally divergent countries: the Prospective Epidemiological Study of Myocardial Infarction (PRIME)</article-title><source>BMJ.</source><year>2010</year><volume>341</volume><fpage>c6077</fpage><?supplied-pmid 21098615?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21098615</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR30" publication-type="journal">Ruidavets J-B, Ducimeti&#x000e8;re P, Evans A, Montaye M, Haas B, Bingham A, et al. Patterns of alcohol consumption and ischaemic heart disease in culturally divergent countries: the Prospective Epidemiological Study of Myocardial Infarction (PRIME). BMJ. 2010;341:c6077.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21098615</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR31"><label>31.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR31" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Reddy</surname><given-names>KS</given-names></name><name><surname>Katan</surname><given-names>MB</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Diet, nutrition and the prevention of hypertension and cardiovascular diseases</article-title><source>Public Health Nutr</source><year>2004</year><volume>7</volume><issue>1a</issue><fpage>167</fpage><lpage>186</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">14972059</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR31" publication-type="journal">Reddy KS, Katan MB. Diet, nutrition and the prevention of hypertension and cardiovascular diseases. Public Health Nutr. 2004;7(1a):167&#x02013;86.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">14972059</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR32"><label>32.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR32" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Jani</surname><given-names>BD</given-names></name><name><surname>McQueenie</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Nicholl</surname><given-names>BI</given-names></name><name><surname>Field</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Hanlon</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Gallacher</surname><given-names>KI</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association between patterns of alcohol consumption (beverage type, frequency and consumption with food) and risk of adverse health outcomes: a prospective cohort study</article-title><source>BMC Med</source><year>2021</year><volume>19</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>8</fpage><?supplied-pmid 33430840?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33430840</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR32" publication-type="journal">Jani BD, McQueenie R, Nicholl BI, Field R, Hanlon P, Gallacher KI, et al. Association between patterns of alcohol consumption (beverage type, frequency and consumption with food) and risk of adverse health outcomes: a prospective cohort study. BMC Med. 2021;19(1): 8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33430840</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR33"><label>33.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR33" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Petermann-Rocha</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Ho</surname><given-names>FK</given-names></name><name><surname>Foster</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Boopor</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Parra-Soto</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Gray</surname><given-names>SR</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Nonlinear associations between cumulative dietary risk factors and cardiovascular diseases, cancer, and all-cause mortality: a prospective cohort study from UK Biobank</article-title><source>Mayo Clin Proc</source><year>2021</year><volume>96</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>2418</fpage><lpage>31</lpage><?supplied-pmid 34366141?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34366141</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR33" publication-type="journal">Petermann-Rocha F, Ho FK, Foster H, Boopor J, Parra-Soto S, Gray SR, et al. Nonlinear associations between cumulative dietary risk factors and cardiovascular diseases, cancer, and all-cause mortality: a prospective cohort study from UK Biobank. Mayo Clin Proc. 2021;96(9):2418&#x02013;31.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34366141</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR34"><label>34.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR34" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Knol</surname><given-names>MJ</given-names></name><name><surname>VanderWeele</surname><given-names>TJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Groenwold</surname><given-names>RHH</given-names></name><name><surname>Klungel</surname><given-names>OH</given-names></name><name><surname>Rovers</surname><given-names>MM</given-names></name><name><surname>Grobbee</surname><given-names>DE</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Estimating measures of interaction on an additive scale for preventive exposures</article-title><source>Eur J Epidemiol</source><year>2011</year><volume>26</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>433</fpage><lpage>8</lpage><?supplied-pmid 21344323?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21344323</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR34" publication-type="journal">Knol MJ, VanderWeele TJ, Groenwold RHH, Klungel OH, Rovers MM, Grobbee DE. Estimating measures of interaction on an additive scale for preventive exposures. Eur J Epidemiol. 2011;26(6):433&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21344323</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR35"><label>35.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR35" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>White</surname><given-names>IR</given-names></name><name><surname>Royston</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Wood</surname><given-names>AM</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Multiple imputation using chained equations: issues and guidance for practice</article-title><source>Stat Med</source><year>2011</year><volume>30</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>377</fpage><lpage>399</lpage><?supplied-pmid 21225900?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21225900</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR35" publication-type="journal">White IR, Royston P, Wood AM. Multiple imputation using chained equations: issues and guidance for practice. Stat Med. 2011;30(4):377&#x02013;99.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21225900</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR36"><label>36.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR36" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bodner</surname><given-names>TE</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>What improves with increased missing data imputations?</article-title><source>Struct Equ Modeling Multidiscip J</source><year>2008</year><volume>15</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>651</fpage><lpage>675</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR36" publication-type="journal">Bodner TE. What improves with increased missing data imputations? Struct Equ Modeling Multidiscip J. 2008;15(4):651&#x02013;75.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR37"><label>37.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR37" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Han</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Q</given-names></name><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Association between outdoor PM2.5 and prevalence of COPD: a systematic review and meta-analysis</article-title><source>Postgrad Med J</source><year>2019</year><volume>95</volume><issue>1129</issue><fpage>612</fpage><lpage>618</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31494575?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31494575</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR37" publication-type="journal">Han F, Yang X, Xu D, Wang Q, Xu D. Association between outdoor PM2.5 and prevalence of COPD: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Postgrad Med J. 2019;95(1129):612&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31494575</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR38"><label>38.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR38" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ghosh</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Air-pollutant particulate matter 2.5 (PM2.5)-induced inflammation and oxidative stress in diseases: possible therapeutic approaches</article-title><source>Int J Sci Res Arch</source><year>2024</year><volume>11</volume><fpage>2148</fpage><lpage>2162</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR38" publication-type="journal">Ghosh A. Air-pollutant particulate matter 2.5 (PM2.5)-induced inflammation and oxidative stress in diseases: possible therapeutic approaches. Int J Sci Res Arch. 2024;11:2148&#x02013;62.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR39"><label>39.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR39" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Gu</surname><given-names>X-y</given-names></name><name><surname>Chu</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Zeng</surname><given-names>X-L</given-names></name><name><surname>Bao</surname><given-names>H-R</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>X-J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Effects of PM2.5 exposure on the Notch signaling pathway and immune imbalance in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease</article-title><source>Environ Pollut</source><year>2017</year><volume>226</volume><fpage>163</fpage><lpage>73</lpage><?supplied-pmid 28431315?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28431315</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR39" publication-type="journal">Gu X-y, Chu X, Zeng X-L, Bao H-R, Liu X-J. Effects of PM2.5 exposure on the Notch signaling pathway and immune imbalance in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Environ Pollut. 2017;226:163&#x02013;73.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28431315</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR40"><label>40.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR40" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Leclercq</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Kluza</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Antherieu</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Sotty</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Alleman</surname><given-names>LY</given-names></name><name><surname>Perdrix</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Air pollution-derived PM2.5 impairs mitochondrial function in healthy and chronic obstructive pulmonary diseased human bronchial epithelial cells</article-title><source>Environ Pollut</source><year>2018</year><volume>243</volume><fpage>1434</fpage><lpage>49</lpage><?supplied-pmid 30278417?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30278417</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR40" publication-type="journal">Leclercq B, Kluza J, Antherieu S, Sotty J, Alleman LY, Perdrix E, et al. Air pollution-derived PM2.5 impairs mitochondrial function in healthy and chronic obstructive pulmonary diseased human bronchial epithelial cells. Environ Pollut. 2018;243:1434&#x02013;49.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30278417</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR41"><label>41.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR41" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Krittanawong</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Qadeer</surname><given-names>YK</given-names></name><name><surname>Hayes</surname><given-names>RB</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Virani</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Thurston</surname><given-names>GD</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>PM2.5 and cardiovascular health risks</article-title><source>Curr Probl Cardiol</source><year>2023</year><volume>48</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>101670</fpage><?supplied-pmid 36828043?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36828043</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR41" publication-type="journal">Krittanawong C, Qadeer YK, Hayes RB, Wang Z, Virani S, Thurston GD, et al. PM2.5 and cardiovascular health risks. Curr Probl Cardiol. 2023;48(6): 101670.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36828043</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR42"><label>42.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR42" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Xi</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Richardson</surname><given-names>DB</given-names></name><name><surname>Kshirsagar</surname><given-names>AV</given-names></name><name><surname>Wade</surname><given-names>TJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Flythe</surname><given-names>JE</given-names></name><name><surname>Whitsel</surname><given-names>EA</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Effects of short-term ambient PM2.5 exposure on cardiovascular disease incidence and mortality among U.S. hemodialysis patients: a retrospective cohort study</article-title><source>Environ Health</source><year>2022</year><volume>21</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>33</fpage><?supplied-pmid 35277178?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35277178</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR42" publication-type="journal">Xi Y, Richardson DB, Kshirsagar AV, Wade TJ, Flythe JE, Whitsel EA, et al. Effects of short-term ambient PM2.5 exposure on cardiovascular disease incidence and mortality among U.S. hemodialysis patients: a retrospective cohort study. Environ Health. 2022;21(1): 33.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35277178</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR43"><label>43.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR43" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Jalali</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Karbakhsh</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Momeni</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Taheri</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Amini</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Mansourian</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Long-term exposure to PM(2.5) and cardiovascular disease incidence and mortality in an Eastern Mediterranean country: findings based on a 15-year cohort study</article-title><source>Environ Health</source><year>2021</year><volume>20</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>112</fpage><?supplied-pmid 34711250?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34711250</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR43" publication-type="journal">Jalali S, Karbakhsh M, Momeni M, Taheri M, Amini S, Mansourian M, et al. Long-term exposure to PM(2.5) and cardiovascular disease incidence and mortality in an Eastern Mediterranean country: findings based on a 15-year cohort study. Environ Health. 2021;20(1): 112.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34711250</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR44"><label>44.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR44" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lederer</surname><given-names>AM</given-names></name><name><surname>Fredriksen</surname><given-names>PM</given-names></name><name><surname>Nkeh-Chungag</surname><given-names>BN</given-names></name><name><surname>Everson</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Strijdom</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Boever</surname><given-names>PD</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Cardiovascular effects of air pollution: current evidence from animal and human studies</article-title><source>Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol</source><year>2021</year><volume>320</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>H1417</fpage><lpage>H1439</lpage><?supplied-pmid 33513082?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33513082</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR44" publication-type="journal">Lederer AM, Fredriksen PM, Nkeh-Chungag BN, Everson F, Strijdom H, Boever PD, et al. Cardiovascular effects of air pollution: current evidence from animal and human studies. Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol. 2021;320(4):H1417&#x02013;39.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33513082</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR45"><label>45.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR45" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Giles</surname><given-names>LV</given-names></name><name><surname>Koehle</surname><given-names>MS</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The health effects of exercising in air pollution</article-title><source>Sports Med</source><year>2014</year><volume>44</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>223</fpage><lpage>249</lpage><?supplied-pmid 24174304?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24174304</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR45" publication-type="journal">Giles LV, Koehle MS. The health effects of exercising in air pollution. Sports Med. 2014;44(2):223&#x02013;49.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24174304</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR46"><label>46.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR46" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Balti</surname><given-names>EV</given-names></name><name><surname>Echouffo-Tcheugui</surname><given-names>JB</given-names></name><name><surname>Yako</surname><given-names>YY</given-names></name><name><surname>Kengne</surname><given-names>AP</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Air pollution and risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis</article-title><source>Diabetes Res Clin Pract</source><year>2014</year><volume>106</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>161</fpage><lpage>172</lpage><?supplied-pmid 25262110?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25262110</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR46" publication-type="journal">Balti EV, Echouffo-Tcheugui JB, Yako YY, Kengne AP. Air pollution and risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2014;106(2):161&#x02013;72.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25262110</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR47"><label>47.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR47" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kokkinos</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Physical activity, health benefits, and mortality risk</article-title><source>Int Sch Res Notices</source><year>2012</year><volume>2012</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>718789</fpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR47" publication-type="journal">Kokkinos P. Physical activity, health benefits, and mortality risk. Int Sch Res Notices. 2012;2012(1): 718789.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR48"><label>48.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR48" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kunutsor</surname><given-names>SK</given-names></name><name><surname>Laukkanen</surname><given-names>JA</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Physical activity, exercise and adverse cardiovascular outcomes in individuals with pre-existing cardiovascular disease: a narrative review</article-title><source>Expert Rev Cardiovasc Ther</source><year>2024</year><volume>22</volume><issue>1&#x02013;3</issue><fpage>91</fpage><lpage>101</lpage><?supplied-pmid 38488568?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38488568</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR48" publication-type="journal">Kunutsor SK, Laukkanen JA. Physical activity, exercise and adverse cardiovascular outcomes in individuals with pre-existing cardiovascular disease: a narrative review. Expert Rev Cardiovasc Ther. 2024;22(1&#x02013;3):91&#x02013;101.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38488568</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR49"><label>49.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR49" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Paudel</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Ahmadi</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Phongsavan</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Hamer</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Stamatakis</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Do associations of physical activity and sedentary behaviour with cardiovascular disease and mortality differ across socioeconomic groups? A prospective analysis of device-measured and self-reported UK Biobank data</article-title><source>Br J Sports Med</source><year>2023</year><volume>57</volume><issue>14</issue><fpage>921</fpage><lpage>929</lpage><?supplied-pmid 36754587?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36754587</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR49" publication-type="journal">Paudel S, Ahmadi M, Phongsavan P, Hamer M, Stamatakis E. Do associations of physical activity and sedentary behaviour with cardiovascular disease and mortality differ across socioeconomic groups? A prospective analysis of device-measured and self-reported UK Biobank data. Br J Sports Med. 2023;57(14):921&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36754587</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR50"><label>50.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR50" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Gorzelitz</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Peppard</surname><given-names>PE</given-names></name><name><surname>Malecki</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Gennuso</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Nieto</surname><given-names>FJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Cadmus-Bertram</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Predictors of discordance in self-report versus device-measured physical activity measurement</article-title><source>Ann Epidemiol</source><year>2018</year><volume>28</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>427</fpage><lpage>431</lpage><?supplied-pmid 29681429?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29681429</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR50" publication-type="journal">Gorzelitz J, Peppard PE, Malecki K, Gennuso K, Nieto FJ, Cadmus-Bertram L. Predictors of discordance in self-report versus device-measured physical activity measurement. Ann Epidemiol. 2018;28(7):427&#x02013;31.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29681429</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR51"><label>51.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR51" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Coogan</surname><given-names>PF</given-names></name><name><surname>White</surname><given-names>LF</given-names></name><name><surname>Jerrett</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Brook</surname><given-names>RD</given-names></name><name><surname>Su</surname><given-names>JG</given-names></name><name><surname>Seto</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Air pollution and incidence of hypertension and diabetes mellitus in black women living in Los Angeles</article-title><source>Circulation</source><year>2012</year><volume>125</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>767</fpage><lpage>72</lpage><?supplied-pmid 22219348?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22219348</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR51" publication-type="journal">Coogan PF, White LF, Jerrett M, Brook RD, Su JG, Seto E, et al. Air pollution and incidence of hypertension and diabetes mellitus in black women living in Los Angeles. Circulation. 2012;125(6):767&#x02013;72.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22219348</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR52"><label>52.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR52" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>SR</given-names></name><name><surname>Choi</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Chang</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>SM</given-names></name><name><surname>Cho</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association of the combined effects of air pollution and changes in physical activity with cardiovascular disease in young adults</article-title><source>Eur Heart J</source><year>2021</year><volume>42</volume><issue>25</issue><fpage>2487</fpage><lpage>97</lpage><?supplied-pmid 33780974?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33780974</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR52" publication-type="journal">Kim SR, Choi S, Kim K, Chang J, Kim SM, Cho Y, et al. Association of the combined effects of air pollution and changes in physical activity with cardiovascular disease in young adults. Eur Heart J. 2021;42(25):2487&#x02013;97.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33780974</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR53"><label>53.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR53" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sinharay</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Gong</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Barratt</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Ohman-Strickland</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Ernst</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Kelly</surname><given-names>FJ</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Respiratory and cardiovascular responses to walking down a traffic-polluted road compared with walking in a traffic-free area in participants aged 60 years and older with chronic lung or heart disease and age-matched healthy controls: a randomised, crossover study</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2018</year><volume>391</volume><issue>10118</issue><fpage>339</fpage><lpage>49</lpage><?supplied-pmid 29221643?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29221643</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR53" publication-type="journal">Sinharay R, Gong J, Barratt B, Ohman-Strickland P, Ernst S, Kelly FJ, et al. Respiratory and cardiovascular responses to walking down a traffic-polluted road compared with walking in a traffic-free area in participants aged 60 years and older with chronic lung or heart disease and age-matched healthy controls: a randomised, crossover study. Lancet. 2018;391(10118):339&#x02013;49.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29221643</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref></ref-list></back></article>