# Predictors and outcomes associated with prolonged hospital length of stay in intracerebral hemorrhage: a multicenter prospective cohort study in China.

<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//NLM//DTD JATS (Z39.96) Journal Archiving and Interchange DTD with MathML3 v1.3 20210610//EN" "JATS-archivearticle1-3-mathml3.dtd"> 
<article xmlns:ali="http://www.niso.org/schemas/ali/1.0/" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" article-type="research-article" dtd-version="1.3"><?properties open_access?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierValue -//Springer-Verlag//DTD A++ V2.4//EN?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierType public?><?SourceDTD.DTDName A++V2.4.dtd?><?SourceDTD.Version 2.4?><?ConverterInfo.XSLTName springer2nlmx2.xsl?><?ConverterInfo.Version 1?><processing-meta base-tagset="archiving" mathml-version="3.0" table-model="xhtml" tagset-family="jats"><restricted-by>pmc</restricted-by></processing-meta><front><journal-meta><journal-id journal-id-type="nlm-ta">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-id journal-id-type="iso-abbrev">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-title-group><journal-title>BMC Medicine</journal-title></journal-title-group><issn pub-type="epub">1741-7015</issn><publisher><publisher-name>BioMed Central</publisher-name><publisher-loc>London</publisher-loc></publisher></journal-meta>
<article-meta><article-id pub-id-type="pmcid">12232577</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="pmid">40619366</article-id>
<article-id pub-id-type="publisher-id">4241</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12916-025-04241-5</article-id><article-categories><subj-group subj-group-type="heading"><subject>Research</subject></subj-group></article-categories><title-group><article-title>Predictors and outcomes associated with prolonged hospital length of stay in intracerebral hemorrhage: a multicenter prospective cohort study in China</article-title></title-group><contrib-group><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Zhuangzhuang</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>Jieyu</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Wenzhe</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Haowei</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Shu</surname><given-names>Junlong</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Jin</surname><given-names>Haiqiang</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Sun</surname><given-names>Peng</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Anderson</surname><given-names>Craig S.</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Zhaoxia</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>Yining</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Sun</surname><given-names>Weiping</given-names></name><address><email>sunweiping@bjmu.edu.cn</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" id="IA1"><collab>for the ChinaQUEST (Quality Evaluation of Stroke Care and Treatment) Investigators</collab></contrib><aff id="Aff1"><label>1</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/02z1vqm45</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.411472.5</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 1764 1621</institution-id><institution>Department of Neurology, </institution><institution>Peking University First Hospital, </institution></institution-wrap>Beijing, China </aff><aff id="Aff2"><label>2</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/03r8z3t63</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.1005.4</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 4902 0432</institution-id><institution>The George Institute for Global Health, </institution><institution>Royal Prince Alfred Hospital and the University of New South Wales, </institution></institution-wrap>Sydney, Australia </aff></contrib-group><pub-date pub-type="epub"><day>7</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="pmc-release"><day>7</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="collection"><year>2025</year></pub-date><volume>23</volume><elocation-id>404</elocation-id><history><date date-type="received"><day>8</day><month>2</month><year>2025</year></date><date date-type="accepted"><day>23</day><month>6</month><year>2025</year></date></history><permissions><copyright-statement>&#x000a9; The Author(s) 2025</copyright-statement><copyright-year>2025</copyright-year><license><ali:license_ref specific-use="textmining" content-type="ccbyncndlicense">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ali:license_ref><license-p><bold>Open Access</bold> This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed material. You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/">http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ext-link>.</license-p></license></permissions><abstract id="Abs1"><sec><title>Background</title><p id="Par5">Research on factors influencing prolonged length of stay (LOS) and its impact on prognosis in intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) patients is limited. This study aimed to identify clinical predictors associated with prolonged LOS and to explore the potential impact of prolonged LOS on the prognosis of patients with mild to moderate ICH.</p></sec><sec><title>Methods</title><p id="Par6">The study included mild to moderate ICH patients from the China Quality Evaluation of Stroke Care and Treatment (QUEST) database. Prolonged LOS was defined as a hospitalization exceeding 14&#x000a0;days. Sociodemographic characteristics, medical histories, stroke severity, in-hospital treatments, complications, discharge destination, and hospital characteristics were compared between the prolonged and normal LOS groups to screen for the potential predictors of extending LOS after ICH. The outcomes were the proportions of poor outcome at 3&#x000a0;months and 12&#x000a0;months after stroke onset. Poor outcome was defined as an mRS score of 3&#x02013;5 or death.</p></sec><sec><title>Results</title><p id="Par7">A total of 1055 mild to moderate ICH patients were enrolled in the study, with 281 (26.6%) exhibiting a LOS of 14&#x000a0;days or less, and 774 (73.4%) exceeding 14&#x000a0;days. The multivariable logistic regression analysis identified several independent predictors of prolonged LOS including younger age, higher annual household income, possession of medical insurance, a history of antithrombotic medication use, infection complication during hospitalization, and hospital regions. Unadjusted analyses showed there were no significant differences in the risk of poor outcome between the prolonged and normal LOS groups at 3 and 12&#x000a0;months after ICH (OR 0.89, 95% CI 0.67&#x02013;1.17, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.404; OR 0.82, 95% CI 0.61&#x02013;1.09, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.165). The adjusted models and the sensitivity analysis using propensity score matching and subgroup analysis produced the similar results.</p></sec><sec><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par8">Various factors contributed to prolonged LOS in mild to moderate ICH patients, including younger age, higher annual household income, possession of medical insurance, a history of antithrombotic medication use, the occurrence of infections during hospitalization, and the hospital regions. A prolonged LOS exceeding 14&#x000a0;days was not associated with a better functional outcome for mild to moderate ICH patients at 3 and 12&#x000a0;months.</p></sec><sec><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12916-025-04241-5.</p></sec></abstract><kwd-group xml:lang="en"><title>Keywords</title><kwd>Length of stay</kwd><kwd>Intracerebral hemorrhage</kwd><kwd>Outcome</kwd><kwd>Predictors</kwd></kwd-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="FundRef">https://doi.org/10.13039/501100001809</institution-id><institution>National Natural Science Foundation of China</institution></institution-wrap></funding-source><award-id>Grant No. 81400944</award-id></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>the Interdisciplinary Clinical Research Project of Peking University First Hospital</institution></funding-source><award-id>No. 2021CR37</award-id></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution>National High Level Hospital Clinical Research Funding (Interdepartmental Research Project of Peking University First Hospital)</institution></funding-source><award-id>2023IR29</award-id></award-group></funding-group><custom-meta-group><custom-meta><meta-name>issue-copyright-statement</meta-name><meta-value>&#x000a9; BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2025</meta-value></custom-meta></custom-meta-group></article-meta></front><body><sec id="Sec1"><title>Background</title><p id="Par15">Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is one of the most detrimental subtypes of stroke, accounting for 10&#x02013;15% of all strokes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>]. It is associated with high morbidity and mortality rates, often leading to severe disability on patients. It also imposes a substantial economic burden on patients, society, and healthcare systems [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>]. A recent study has reported the median hospitalization cost for patients with ICH in Canada was $10,120 (IQR $5,356&#x02013;$23,940) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>]. Hospital length of stay (LOS) is one of the most important factors in determining hospitalization cost for patients with ICH [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>]. Beyond its impact on economic burden, predicting LOS can aid in developing early discharge strategies and optimizing the allocation of medical resources. Several studies in Britain [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>], America [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>], Germany [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>], Canada [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>], and Israel [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>] have explored the factors that influence LOS in patients with ICH, which include stroke severity, reduced consciousness on admission, histories of heart failure, and atrial fibrillation. However, given the significant differences in LOS across countries [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>], these results may not be applicable to China, where related research remains limited.
</p><p id="Par16">Current guidelines have not identified universally defined discharge criterion for patients with ICH. From a financial standpoint, hospital and medical insurance organization prefer for shorter LOS [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>]. A longer LOS may be more beneficial for improving patient-centered care, enhancing rehabilitation education and exercise, reducing readmission rates, strengthening secondary prevention, and adjusting risk factors, and is anticipated to collectively result in better functional outcomes for patients [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>]. However, in most studies addressing LOS, more attention has been given to medical costs and expenses rather than clinical relevance [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>]. The relationship between hospital LOS and prognosis remains unclear in ICH patients. In China, discharge decisions are often determined through joint consultation between physicians and patients&#x02019; families in clinical practice. While the patient&#x02019;s clinical status remains the primary determinant of discharge decision, family preferences can influence the decision, sometimes leading to an extending LOS. This flexibility in discharge timing provides a potential opportunity to address the association of LOS and patient outcomes after ICH.</p><p id="Par17">In this study, using data from the China Quality Evaluation of Stroke Care and Treatment (QUEST), a multicenter, prospective hospital-based registry study, we examined the predictors of LOS and its relationship with functional outcomes in ICH patients in China. We hypothesized that prolonged LOS may not necessarily lead to better functional outcomes after ICH. This study aimed to provide insights that could inform healthcare policies and clinical decision-making regarding optimal hospitalization duration for ICH patients in China.</p></sec><sec id="Sec2"><title>Methods</title><sec id="Sec3"><title>Data source</title><p id="Par18">Study data was collected from the China QUEST, a multicenter, prospective hospital register (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;62) study conducted in 37 cities in China. The design and conduct of the China QUEST had been described in detail previously [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR21">21</xref>]. In brief, consecutive patients (aged&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;15&#x000a0;years) admitted to hospital with a recent (&#x0003c;&#x02009;1&#x000a0;month) acute stroke (ischemic stroke, intracerebral hemorrhage, or undetermined subtype) were enrolled from 1 July to 5 December in 2006. Those with subarachnoid hemorrhage were excluded.</p><p id="Par19">Baseline information on socio-demographics and medical history was obtained predominantly by face-to-face interviews with patients or proxies. In-hospital details on diagnostic/treatment strategies were obtained through medical records and interviews with patients or proxies. Follow-up information was collected mainly by telephone interview (&#x0003e;&#x02009;80%) at 3 and 12&#x000a0;months after stroke onset.</p><p id="Par20">Written informed consent was obtained from all patients or an appropriate family member (if the patient was unable to give it) to participate. Ethics committees at Peking University First Hospital (Beijing), Ruijin Hospital (Shanghai), Prince of Wales Hospital (Hong Kong), and The University of Sydney approved the study. The study protocol received approval from the Ethics Committee of Peking University First Hospital, Beijing (2006&#x02013;011). Each participating center obtained ethical approval and followed the requirements of their local regulatory authorities. The Declaration of Helsinki Good Clinical Practice guidelines were followed, and patient privacy was strictly protected.</p><sec id="Sec4"><title>Study population</title><p id="Par21">We included patients who were diagnosed of ICH confirmed by CT or MRI from the China QUEST database in our analysis. Patients were excluded if they (1) had a missing value of LOS; (2) had a Glasgow coma scale (GCS) score ranging between 3 and 8 at baseline; (3) underwent neurosurgery during hospitalization; (4) died during hospitalization; and (5) had an outlier LOS (longer than 60&#x000a0;days).</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec5"><title>Variable of interest and outcome</title><p id="Par22">LOS was defined as the discharge date minus the admission date plus one [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR22">22</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>]. All patients were divided into two groups according to their LOS: the normal LOS group (LOS&#x02009;&#x02264;&#x02009;14&#x000a0;days) and the prolonged LOS group (LOS&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;14&#x000a0;days) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>]. The outcomes were the proportions of poor outcome at 3 and 12&#x000a0;months post-stroke. Poor outcome was defined as an mRS score of 3&#x02013;5 or death.</p></sec><sec id="Sec6"><title>Covariates</title><p id="Par23">Patient characteristics included socio-demographic variables, medical history, diagnosis, and treatment. Socio-demographic variables included age, sex, education level, living conditions, marital status, annual household income, and medical insurance. Medical history included hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidaemia, atrial fibrillation, prior stroke/TIA, coronary artery disease (any history of heart attack and/or myocardial infarction, angina or coronary heart disease) either self-reported or diagnosed in hospital post-stroke, current cigarette smoking, regular alcohol consumption within the 3&#x000a0;months before stroke onset, prior dependency, antithrombotic drugs use before ICH, and body mass index (BMI). The diagnosis and treatment details during hospitalization included the GCS score on admission, which was used to assess the severity of the ICH, the use of mechanical ventilation, in-hospital complications such as infections, seizures, and cardiovascular events, and discharge destination. Hospital characteristics included hospital level and hospital region. According to geographic region, participating hospitals were classified as eastern, southern, northern, central, northeastern, northwestern, and southwestern.</p><sec id="Sec7"><title>Statistical analysis</title><p id="Par24">Continuous variables were presented as medians (interquartile ranges (IQR)), and categorical variables were presented as frequencies (percents). The patient and hospital characteristics were compared between the normal LOS group and the prolonged LOS group using Mann&#x02013;Whitney test, or chi-square test as appropriate. The distributional similarity assumption required for the Mann&#x02013;Whitney <italic>U</italic> test was verified by assessing the shape consistency of continuous variables across groups using graphical analyses. To investigate factors associated with prolonged LOS independently, a multivariable logistic regression model was fitted with variables which had a <italic>P</italic>-value&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.1 on univariate analysis.</p><p id="Par25">To explore the association between prolonged LOS and the outcomes, several multivariable logistic regression models were fitted. In addition to the unadjusted analysis, we adjusted for age and sex in Model 1. We further adjusted for education level, living conditions, marital status, medical insurance, annual household income, medical history, GCS score on admission, hospital region, and hospital level in Model 2. In Model 3, we added use of mechanical ventilation, complications during hospitalization, and discharge destination as confounders. The linearity assumption for continuous variables in the logistic regression models was evaluated through the Box-Tidwell test.</p><p id="Par26">The robustness of our findings was assessed in several ways. First, we performed a sensitivity analysis using propensity score matching to account for differences in baseline characteristics between prolonged LOS patients and normal LOS patients. The propensity score was estimated for individual patients using a logistic regression model, in which prolonged LOS was regressed on the demographic characteristics, medical history, diagnosis and treatment details, and hospital characteristics. We matched cases to control subjects (prolonged LOS vs normal LOS) within a pre-specified caliper having a width of 0.1 times the SD of the logit of the propensity score. We used McNemar&#x02019;s test to compare the outcomes between prolonged LOS patients and matched normal LOS patients. Second, we performed a series of subgroup analyses stratified by patient age, sex, medical insurance, annual household income, use of antithrombotic drugs before ICH, history of hypertension, prior dependency, GCS score at admission, and discharge destination, respectively. These assessments were conducted through multivariable logistic regression models, incorporating confounders consistent with Model 3 specifications of the main analysis. Third, we performed a multivariable linear regression analysis to investigate the factors influencing prolonged LOS which was used as a continuous variable. Fourth, to address potential underestimation of total LOS in transferred patients due to methodological constraints of calculating LOS exclusively during index hospitalization, we performed a sensitivity analysis using an expanded definition of prolonged LOS (&#x0003e;&#x02009;14&#x000a0;days or discharged to non-home destinations). Additionally, we conducted a supplementary analysis by restricting the study population to home-discharged patients.</p><p id="Par27">All statistical analyses were performed with IBM SPSS version 26.0 and GraphPad Prism version 8.0 (IBM, Armonk, NY, USA). <italic>P</italic> value&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05 was considered significant for all tests.</p></sec></sec></sec><sec id="Sec8"><title>Results</title><p id="Par28">There were 1571 patients diagnosed with ICH in the China QUEST study. After excluding 516 patients due to missing data on LOS (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;12), GCS scores ranking between 3 and 8 (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;374), underwent neurosurgery during hospitalization (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;68), in-hospital death (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;42), and hospitalization for more than 60&#x000a0;days (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;20), there were 1055 patients included in our analysis (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>).<fig id="Fig1"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;1</label><caption><p>Flowchart of the current study. LOS=length of stay; GCS=Glasgow Coma Scale</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4241_Fig1_HTML" id="MO1"/></fig></p><p id="Par29">Their median age was 61 (IQR 52&#x02013;71) years, and 635 (60.2%) patients were male. The median LOS was 20 (IQR 14&#x02013;28) days and the distribution of LOS was presented in Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>. There were 281 patients (26.6%) in the normal LOS group and 774 patients (73.4%) in the prolonged LOS group.<fig id="Fig2"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;2</label><caption><p>The distribution of LOS for patients with ICH. LOS=Length of stay; ICH= intracerebral hemorrhage</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4241_Fig2_HTML" id="MO2"/></fig></p><sec id="Sec9"><title>Factors associated with prolonged LOS</title><p id="Par30">The characteristics of the study population are presented in Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref>. Univariate analysis showed, compared with the normal LOS group, patients in the prolonged LOS group were younger and were more likely to have medical insurance, use antithrombotic drugs before ICH, have a higher education level, a higher annual household income, a higher BMI, and a higher proportion of discharge home. And the differences in hospital level and regions between the two groups were also statistical significantly (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref>).
<table-wrap id="Tab1"><label>Table 1</label><caption><p>Patient characteristics stratified by LOS</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left">Patient characteristics</th><th align="left">Overall<break/>(<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;1055)</th><th align="left">LOS&#x02009;&#x02264;&#x02009;14&#x000a0;days<break/>(<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;281)</th><th align="left">LOS&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;14&#x000a0;days<break/>(<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;774)</th><th align="left"><italic>P</italic> value</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left" colspan="5">Demographic characteristics</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Age (years), median (IQR)</td><td align="left">61(52,71)</td><td align="left">65(53.5,72)</td><td align="left">60(51,70)</td><td align="left">0.006**</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Male, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">635(60.2%)</td><td align="left">177(63%)</td><td align="left">458(59.2%)</td><td align="left">0.263</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Low level of education, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">518(49.1%)</td><td align="left">159(56.6%)</td><td align="left">359(46.4%)</td><td align="left">0.003**</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Living alone, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">50(4.7%)</td><td align="left">10(3.6%)</td><td align="left">40(5.2%)</td><td align="left">0.277</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Married, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">880(83.4%)</td><td align="left">237(84.3%)</td><td align="left">643(83.1%)</td><td align="left">0.625</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Annual household income</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.001**</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x0003c;&#x02009;20,000 CNY (US $2857)</td><td align="left">692(65.6%)</td><td align="left">206(73.3%)</td><td align="left">486(62.8%)</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02265;&#x02009;20,000 CNY (US $2857)</td><td align="left">363(34.4%)</td><td align="left">75(26.7%)</td><td align="left">288(37.2%)</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Medical insurance, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">526(49.9%)</td><td align="left">118(42%)</td><td align="left">408(52.7%)</td><td align="left">0.002**</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5">Medical history</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Hypertension, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">898(85.1%)</td><td align="left">235(83.6%)</td><td align="left">663(85.7%)</td><td align="left">0.413</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Diabetes mellitus, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">102(9.7%)</td><td align="left">21(7.5%)</td><td align="left">81(10.5%)</td><td align="left">0.146</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Hyperlipidemia, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">205(19.4%)</td><td align="left">44(15.7%)</td><td align="left">161(20.8%)</td><td align="left">0.062</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Coronary heart disease, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">165(15.6%)</td><td align="left">42(14.9%)</td><td align="left">123(15.9%)</td><td align="left">0.709</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Atrial fibrillation, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">35(3.3%)</td><td align="left">10(3.6%)</td><td align="left">25(3.2%)</td><td align="left">0.792</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;TIA or stroke, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">237(22.5%)</td><td align="left">63(22.4%)</td><td align="left">174(22.5%)</td><td align="left">0.983</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;BMI (kg/m<sup>2</sup>), median (IQR)</td><td align="left">23.0(20.8,25.4)</td><td align="left">22.2(20.3,24.6)</td><td align="left">23.4(21.2,25.4)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001***</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Antithrombotic drugs, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">142(13.5%)</td><td align="left">24(8.5%)</td><td align="left">118(15.2%)</td><td align="left">0.005**</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Current smoker, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">281(26.6%)</td><td align="left">81(28.8%)</td><td align="left">200(25.8%)</td><td align="left">0.332</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Alcohol, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">293(27.8%)</td><td align="left">81(28.8%)</td><td align="left">212(27.4%)</td><td align="left">0.645</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Prior dependency, n (%)</td><td align="left">132(12.5%)</td><td align="left">30(10.7%)</td><td align="left">102(13.2%)</td><td align="left">0.278</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5">Diagnosis and treatment</td></tr><tr><td align="left">GCS score</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.779</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;GCS 13&#x02013;15, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">821(77.8%)</td><td align="left">217(77.2%)</td><td align="left">604(78.0%)</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;GCS 9&#x02013;12, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">234(22.2%)</td><td align="left">64(22.8%)</td><td align="left">170(22.0%)</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Mechanical ventilation, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">8(0.8%)</td><td align="left">2(0.7%)</td><td align="left">6(0.8%)</td><td align="left">0.916</td></tr><tr><td align="left">In-hospital complications</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Infection, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">167(15.8%)</td><td align="left">35(12.5%)</td><td align="left">132(17.1%)</td><td align="left">0.070</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Cardiovascular event, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">9(0.9%)</td><td align="left">1(0.4%)</td><td align="left">8(1.0%)</td><td align="left">0.458</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Seizure, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">14(1.3%)</td><td align="left">3(1.1%)</td><td align="left">11(1.4%)</td><td align="left">0.771</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Discharge destination</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001***</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Home</td><td align="left">974(92.3%)</td><td align="left">242(86.1%)</td><td align="left">732(94.6%)</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Alternate hospital, rehabilitation center or others</td><td align="left">81(7.7%)</td><td align="left">39(13.9%)</td><td align="left">42(5.4%)</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5">Hospital level</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Tertiary hospitals, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">800(75.8%)</td><td align="left">191(68.0%)</td><td align="left">609(78.7%)</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001***</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Hospital Region</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001***</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Eastern area, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">258(24.5%)</td><td align="left">83(29.5%)</td><td align="left">175(22.6%)</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Southern area, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">35(3.3%)</td><td align="left">7(2.5%)</td><td align="left">28(3.6%)</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Northern area, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">306(29.0%)</td><td align="left">63(22.4%)</td><td align="left">243(31.4%)</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Central area, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">187(17.7%)</td><td align="left">74(26.3%)</td><td align="left">113(14.6%)</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Northeastern area, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">47(4.5%)</td><td align="left">16(5.7%)</td><td align="left">31(4.0%)</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Northwestern area, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">137(13.0%)</td><td align="left">16(5.7%)</td><td align="left">121(15.6%)</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Southwestern area, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">85(8.1%)</td><td align="left">22(7.8%)</td><td align="left">63(8.1%)</td><td align="left"/></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p><italic>LOS</italic> length of stay, Low level of education, illiterate or primary only, <italic>BMI</italic> body mass index, <italic>GCS</italic> Glasgow Coma Scale, <italic>US</italic> United States Dollar, <italic>CNY</italic> Chinese Yuan, <italic>IQR</italic> interquartile range, <italic>TIA</italic> transient ischemic attack</p><p><sup>*</sup><italic>P</italic> value&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05; **<italic>P</italic> value&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.01; ***<italic>P</italic> value&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p><p id="Par31">Multivariable analyses showed the independent predictors of prolonged LOS included being younger, having higher annual household income, having medical insurance, using antithrombotic drugs before ICH, developing in-hospital infection complication, and being admitted to hospitals in northern and northwestern areas (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref>).
<table-wrap id="Tab2"><label>Table 2</label><caption><p>Multivariable analysis of predictors of prolonged LOS in patients of ICH</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left">Variables</th><th align="left"><italic>P</italic> value</th><th align="left">Adjusted OR (95%CI)</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left" colspan="3">Socio-demographic variables</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Age, years</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001***</td><td align="left">0.98(0.97,0.99)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><p>&#x02003;Annual household income</p><p>&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;20000 CNY (US $2857)</p></td><td align="left">0.006**</td><td align="left">1.58(1.14,2.18)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Medical insurance</td><td align="left">0.001**</td><td align="left">1.67(1.23,2.27)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Medical history</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Antithrombotic drugs</td><td align="left">0.026*</td><td align="left">1.75(1.07,2.85)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">In-hospital complications</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Infection</td><td align="left">0.007**</td><td align="left">1.81(1.17,2.79)</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="3">Hospital region</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Eastern area</td><td align="left">reference</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Southern area</td><td align="left">0.186</td><td align="left">1.84(0.75,4.51)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Northern area</td><td align="left">0.013*</td><td align="left">1.69(1.12,2.55)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Central area</td><td align="left">0.187</td><td align="left">0.76(0.50,1.15)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Northeastern area</td><td align="left">0.261</td><td align="left">0.67(0.33,1.35)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Northwestern area</td><td align="left">&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001***</td><td align="left">3.80(2.08,6.68)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Southwestern area</td><td align="left">0.885</td><td align="left">1.04(0.58,1.88)</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>Variables with a <italic>P</italic>-value&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.1 in the univariate analysis were included in a multivariable logistic regression analysis to investigate factors associated with prolonged LOS</p><p><italic>LOS</italic> length of stay,&#x000a0;<italic>ICH</italic> intracerebral hemorrhage,&#x000a0;<italic>US</italic> United States Dollar,&#x000a0;<italic>CNY</italic> Chinese Yuan</p><p>*<italic>P</italic> value&#x000a0;&#x0003c;&#x000a0;0.05; **<italic>P</italic> value&#x000a0;&#x0003c;&#x000a0;0.01;&#x000a0;***<italic>P</italic> value&#x000a0;&#x0003c;&#x000a0;0.001</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p></sec><sec id="Sec10"><title>Association of LOS and ICH outcomes</title><p id="Par32">The mRS score was available in 1037 patients at 3&#x000a0;months and in 1018 patients at 12&#x000a0;months. At 3&#x000a0;months after stroke, 38.9% of the prolonged LOS group and 41.7% of the normal LOS group had poor outcome. Unadjusted analysis showed that the difference was not statistically significant (OR 0.89, 95% CI 0.67&#x02013;1.17, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.404). Several adjusted models also showed no significant association between prolonged LOS and poor outcomes (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab3" ref-type="table">3</xref>). At 12&#x000a0;months after stroke, 39.6% patients in the normal LOS group had a poor outcome, while 34.9% patients in the prolonged LOS group had a poor outcome. The unadjusted analysis revealed no statistically significant difference between the two groups (OR 0.82, 95% CI 0.61&#x02013;1.09, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.165). The similar results were found in the adjusted models (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab3" ref-type="table">3</xref>).
<table-wrap id="Tab3"><label>Table 3</label><caption><p>Association between prolonged LOS and poor outcome at 3 and 12&#x000a0;months after ICH in unadjusted and adjusted models</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left">Poor outcome</th><th align="left" colspan="2">Normal LOS group</th><th align="left">Prolonged LOS group</th><th align="left"><italic>P</italic> value</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left" colspan="5">At 3&#x000a0;months</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Unadjusted analysis</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left" colspan="2">0.89(0.67,1.17)</td><td align="left">0.404</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Adjusted analysis</td><td align="left"/><td align="left" colspan="2"/><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Model 1</td><td align="left">Ref&#x000a0;</td><td align="left" colspan="2">0.95(0.71,1.27)</td><td align="left">0.728</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Model 2</td><td align="left">Ref&#x000a0;</td><td align="left" colspan="2">0.94(0.69,1.28)</td><td align="left">0.690</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Model 3</td><td align="left">Ref&#x000a0;</td><td align="left" colspan="2">0.99(0.71,1.37)</td><td align="left">0.937</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5">At 12&#x000a0;months</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Unadjusted analysis</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left" colspan="2">0.82(0.61,1.09)</td><td align="left">0.165</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="5">Adjusted analysis</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Model 1</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left" colspan="2">0.89(0.66, 1.20)</td><td align="left">0.445</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Model 2</td><td align="left">Ref&#x000a0;</td><td align="left" colspan="2">0.82(0.59,1.15)</td><td align="left">0.249</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Model 3</td><td align="left">Ref&#x000a0;</td><td align="left" colspan="2">0.82(0.59,1.16)</td><td align="left">0.268</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>Logistic regression models were used to investigate the relationship between prolonged LOS and poor outcome at 3 and 12&#x000a0;months after stroke. Model 1 was adjusted for age and sex. Model 2 was adjusted for the confounders in Model 1 plus education level, living conditions, marital status, medical insurance, annual household income, medical history, GCS score on admission, hospital region and hospital level. Model 3 was adjusted for the confounders in Model 2 plus use of mechanical ventilation, complications during hospitalization, and discharge destination. <italic>LOS</italic> length of stay; <italic>ICH</italic> intracerebral hemorrhage</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p></sec><sec id="Sec11"><title>Sensitivity analysis</title><p id="Par33">Using propensity score matching, 562 patients were matched, with 281 patients in each group. The characteristics of the matched cohort are presented in Additional file 1: Table S1. In the propensity-matched cohort, the risk of poor outcome was not statistically different between the prolonged LOS group and the normal LOS group at 3&#x000a0;months (39.9% vs 41.3%, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.811) and 12&#x000a0;months (35.9% vs 38.1%, <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.596) (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab4" ref-type="table">4</xref>).
<table-wrap id="Tab4"><label>Table 4</label><caption><p>Association between prolonged LOS and poor outcome at 3 and 12&#x000a0;months after ICH in Propensity Score-Matched Cohorts</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left">Poor outcome</th><th align="left">Normal LOS (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;281)</th><th align="left">Prolonged LOS (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;281)</th><th align="left"><italic>P</italic> value</th><th align="left">OR (95%CI)</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">At 3&#x000a0;months, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">116(41.3%)</td><td align="left">112(39.9%)</td><td align="left">0.811</td><td align="left">0.96 (0.68, 1.35)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">At 12&#x000a0;months, <italic>n</italic> (%)</td><td align="left">107(38.1%)</td><td align="left">101(35.9%)</td><td align="left">0.596</td><td align="left">0.88 (0.62, 1.24)</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p><italic>LOS</italic> length of stay, <italic>ICH</italic> intracerebral hemorrhage</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p><p id="Par34">In the subgroup analyses according to age, sex, medical insurance, annual household income, history of antithrombotic drugs and hypertension, prior dependency, GCS score, and discharge destination, the results remained consistent with the main analysis in each subgroup and no interaction was found (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab5" ref-type="table">5</xref>).
<table-wrap id="Tab5"><label>Table 5</label><caption><p>Association between prolonged LOS and poor outcome at 3 and 12&#x000a0;months after ICH in subgroup analysis</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left" colspan="2"/><th align="left" colspan="3">Poor outcome at 3 months</th><th align="left" colspan="3">Poor outcome at 12&#x000a0;months</th></tr><tr><th align="left"/><th align="left">Total</th><th align="left">OR (95%CI)</th><th align="left"><italic>P</italic> value</th><th align="left"><italic>P</italic> value for interaction</th><th align="left">OR (95%CI)</th><th align="left"><italic>P</italic> value</th><th align="left"><italic>P</italic> value for interaction</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">Age</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.448</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.564</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02264;&#x02009;65 years</td><td align="left">634</td><td align="left">0.90(0.58,1.42)</td><td align="left">0.659</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.90(0.42,1.90)</td><td align="left">0.788</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x0003e;&#x02009;65&#x000a0;years</td><td align="left">421</td><td align="left">1.06(0.64,1.77)</td><td align="left">0.810</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.95(0.56,1.62)</td><td align="left">0.854</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Sex</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.654</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.388</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Male</td><td align="left">635</td><td align="left">0.94(0.62,1.43)</td><td align="left">0.766</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.81(0.52,1.25)</td><td align="left">0.347</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Female</td><td align="left">420</td><td align="left">1.12(0.65,1.94)</td><td align="left">0.679</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.92(0.51,1.66)</td><td align="left">0.784</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Medical insurance</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.544</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.372</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Yes</td><td align="left">526</td><td align="left">0.94(0.56,1.59)</td><td align="left">0.828</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.69(0.41,1.45)</td><td align="left">0.152</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;No</td><td align="left">529</td><td align="left">0.98(0.63,1.54)</td><td align="left">0.926</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.91(0.57,1.48)</td><td align="left">0.713</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Annual household income</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.565</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.462</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x0003c;&#x02009;20,000 CNY (US $2857)</td><td align="left">692</td><td align="left">0.78(0.53,1.16)</td><td align="left">0.217</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.54(0.24,1.21)</td><td align="left">0.135</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02265;&#x02009;20,000 CNY (US $2857)</td><td align="left">363</td><td align="left">1.45(0.77,2.72)</td><td align="left">0.254</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">1.14(0.57,2.27)</td><td align="left">0.718</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">History of antithrombotic drugs</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.213</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.753</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;No</td><td align="left">913</td><td align="left">0.98(0.69,1.39)</td><td align="left">0.909</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.80(0.56,1.15)</td><td align="left">0.227</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Yes</td><td align="left">142</td><td align="left">0.58(0.16,2.08)</td><td align="left">0.402</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">1.25(0.29,5.36)</td><td align="left">0.763</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">History of hypertension</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.910</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.193</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;No</td><td align="left">157</td><td align="left">0.63(0.22,1.78)</td><td align="left">0.386</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">1.08(0.29,4.04)</td><td align="left">0.914</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Yes</td><td align="left">898</td><td align="left">0.99(0.70,1.41)</td><td align="left">0.973</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.79(0.55,1.13)</td><td align="left">0.198</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Prior dependency</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.325</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.404</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;No</td><td align="left">923</td><td align="left">0.96(0.68,1.37)</td><td align="left">0.841</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.81(0.57,1.15)</td><td align="left">0.239</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Yes</td><td align="left">132</td><td align="left">1.22(0.35,4.27)</td><td align="left">0.762</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">1.41(0.34,5.86)</td><td align="left">0.637</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">GCS score</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.943</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.558</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;13&#x02013;15</td><td align="left">821</td><td align="left">1.06(0.72,1.55)</td><td align="left">0.767</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.82(0.56,1.19)</td><td align="left">0.299</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;9&#x02013;12</td><td align="left">234</td><td align="left">0.57(0.29,1.13)</td><td align="left">0.110</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.95(0.40,2.25)</td><td align="left">0.906</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">Discharge destination</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.237</td><td align="left"/><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.168</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Home</td><td align="left">974</td><td align="left">0.93(0.66,1.31)</td><td align="left">0.667</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">0.78(0.54,1.12)</td><td align="left">0.176</td><td align="left"/></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Alternate hospital, rehabilitation center or others</td><td align="left">81</td><td align="left">0.87(0.21,3.55)</td><td align="left">0.848</td><td align="left"/><td align="left">1.06(0.21,5.37)</td><td align="left">0.940</td><td align="left"/></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>In the subgroup analysis, the normal LOS group was used as the reference, and the outcome measure was poor outcome</p><p>The subgroup analyses were conducted through multivariable logistic regression models. The confounders included age, sex, education level, living conditions, marital status, medical insurance, annual household income, medical history, GCS score on admission, use of mechanical ventilation, complications during hospitalization, discharge destination, hospital region, and hospital level. In each stratified analysis, the adjustment protocol systematically excluded the subgroup-defining variable while retaining all other confounders from the original model</p><p><italic>LOS</italic> length of stay, <italic>ICH</italic> intracerebral hemorrhage, <italic>US</italic> United States Dollar, <italic>GCS</italic> Glasgow Coma Scale, <italic>CNY</italic> Chinese Yuan</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p><p id="Par35">Using LOS as a continuous variable, the multivariable linear regression model reported the similar predictors of prolonged LOS with those obtained when LOS was treated as a binary variable (Additional file 1: Table S2). Both sensitivity analyses employing the expanded criteria of prolonged LOS (&#x0003e;&#x02009;14&#x000a0;days or discharged to non-home destinations) and stratified analyses restricted to home-discharged cohorts showed the similar results with our main analyses (Additional file 1: Table S3, S4, S5, S6, S7 and S8).</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec12"><title>Discussion</title><p id="Par36">This study indicated several predictors of a prolonged LOS in ICH patients in China which included younger age, higher annual household income, possession of medical insurance, a history of antithrombotic medication use, the occurrence of infections during hospitalization, and the hospital&#x02019;s region. Notably, a prolonged LOS did not associate with a better outcome for ICH patients at both 3 and 12&#x000a0;months.</p><p id="Par37">Previous studies demonstrated significant variations in the LOS of ICH patients across countries. In this study, the median LOS for patients with ICH was 20&#x000a0;days, aligning closely with another study in China which reported a median LOS of 21&#x000a0;days, thus indicating a good representativeness of our cohort [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>]. Notably, this LOS exceeded those observed in the USA [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR26">26</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR34">34</xref>] (4&#x02013;9&#x000a0;days), Finland [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR35">35</xref>] (2&#x000a0;days), Germany [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR36">36</xref>] (11&#x000a0;days), Singapore [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR37">37</xref>] (15&#x000a0;days), and Brazil [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR38">38</xref>] (15&#x000a0;days). While in other East Asian countries, including Japan [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR39">39</xref>] (31&#x000a0;days) and Korea [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR40">40</xref>] (28&#x000a0;days), the LOS of ICH patients was comparable to that observed in our study or even longer. The significant variation in LOS among ICH patients offered an opportunity to study the relationship between LOS and ICH outcome and provided clues for further improving the efficiency of ICH treatment and optimizing resource allocation. Previous studies reported a high proportion of patients being transferred to another hospital or rehabilitation facility after discharge [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR41">41</xref>]. In contrast, in our study, more than 80% of patients were discharged directly home, which did not affect the reliability of our conclusions.</p><p id="Par38">While investigating predictors and outcomes of prolonged hospitalization after ICH, categorizing LOS would enhance clinical interpretability compared to continuous variable analysis. However, current clinical guidelines lack a universally accepted threshold for prolonged LOS after ICH in China. Our database collected in 2006 recorded a median LOS of 20&#x000a0;days, yet subsequent studies demonstrated significant LOS reduction among stroke patients over the past two decades [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR42">42</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR43">43</xref>]. Recent multicenter investigations revealed substantially shorter median LOS durations for Chinese ICH patients, ranging from 10 to 16&#x000a0;days [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR44">44</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR46">46</xref>]. To align our findings with current clinical practice patterns, we established 14&#x000a0;days as the prolonged LOS threshold in our analysis for the consistency with recent national data trends, the operational feasibility for clinical decision-making, and the methodological alignment with prior research employing comparable definitions [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR47">47</xref>].</p><p id="Par39">We found that a history of prior antithrombotic drug use significantly extended the LOS in ICH patients. Similar findings had also been reported in other studies, including those on trauma [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR48">48</xref>] and atrial fibrillation [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR49">49</xref>]. A previous study found a history of antiplatelet drug use was associated with a 3.2 times higher risk of significant hematoma expansion after ICH [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR50">50</xref>]. Another study reported 19.3% patients with prior antithrombotic drug use had experienced hematoma expansion after ICH and a lower incidence of 7.1% in those patients without antithrombotic drug use [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR51">51</xref>]. The impact of prior antithrombotic drug use on hematoma expansion after ICH may explain a prolonged LOS in these patients.</p><p id="Par40">Additionally, we found that in-hospital infection was an important predictor of prolonged LOS in ICH patients, which was consistent with findings from previous studies [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR28">28</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR52">52</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR53">53</xref>]. Naidech et al. [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>] found that the LOS for ICH patients without pneumonia during hospitalization was 12.7&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;11.6&#x000a0;days, while for those with pneumonia as a complication, the LOS was significantly longer at 23.5&#x02009;&#x000b1;&#x02009;8.6&#x000a0;days. Moreover, in a large clinical registry study involving 13,721 stroke patients, the incidence of pneumonia and urinary tract infection was 9 and 15.4%, and pneumonia (OR 1.8, 95% CI 1.54&#x02013;2.11) and urinary tract infection (OR 2.29, 95% CI 1.88&#x02013;2.8) were both significant predictors of prolonged LOS [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR52">52</xref>]. Infection complication was not only associated with prolonged LOS but also exacerbate neurological deterioration in ICH patients, independently correlating with poor post-stroke outcomes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR52">52</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR54">54</xref>]. These findings highlighted the importance of early infection control and prevention in the comprehensive management of ICH.</p><p id="Par41">While a previous study had reported a correlation between higher GCS and prolonged LOS [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>], we found no significant association between GCS and LOS. This discrepancy may arise from the exclusion of patients with severe ICH (GCS 3&#x02013;8) in our analysis, as our focus was primarily on those with mild to moderate severity. Despite hypertension had been reported to have a link to longer LOS [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>], our study did not observe a significant correlation, potentially due to a high proportion of history of hypertension in our cohort.</p><p id="Par42">Consistent with previous research, we found no significant associations between prolonged LOS and histories of diabetes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR55">55</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR56">56</xref>], hyperlipidemia [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>], coronary heart disease [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR56">56</xref>], or prior stroke [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>]. In this study, we did not observe a relationship between two in-hospital complications, including seizures and cardiovascular events, and prolonged LOS. A possible reason for this was a low incidence of these complications in our cohort, which resulted in insufficient statistical power to detect a difference. Future large-scale clinical studies are needed to address this issue.</p><p id="Par43">The association between socioeconomic factors and LOS had been well-documented in studies on various conditions, including cervical spondylosis [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR57">57</xref>], congenital heart disease [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR58">58</xref>], traumatic brain injury [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR59">59</xref>], and joint replacement [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR60">60</xref>]. In this study, we also found that socioeconomic factors including health insurance and income levels were significantly associated with LOS in ICH patients. Our study identified possession of medical insurance as a significant predictor of prolonged LOS in ICH patients, which was consistent with another study on ICH [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR45">45</xref>]. They found medical insurance was one of the significant predictors for longer LOS in a cohort of 3600 patients of ICH. Additionally, a study on ischemic stroke found that the type of medical insurance also impacted LOS. Patients covered by public health insurance, which offered a high reimbursement ratio, had a longer LOS compared to those enrolled in the New Rural Cooperative Medical System with a lower reimbursement ratio [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR61">61</xref>].</p><p id="Par44">Moreover, our study indicated that high-income patients had a longer LOS compared to low-income patients, consistent with findings from studies on hypertension [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR62">62</xref>] and acute myocardial infarction [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR63">63</xref>]. A plausible explanation was that patients with medical insurance and high income were more concerned with functional recovery than with medical costs and would therefore extend their LOS to achieve a better prognosis. In contrast, patients with low income and without medical insurance tended to focus more on medical expenses, and thus prefer to be discharged early to reduce costs. The independent association of socioeconomic factors with LOS after ICH also revealed a potential for reducing LOS.</p><p id="Par45">Previous studies on LOS of ICH patients failed to establish a consistent relationship between age and LOS. Some studies demonstrated that age was not associated with LOS [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR45">45</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR64">64</xref>], whereas other studies have indicated that elderly patients were associated with prolonged LOS and higher costs [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR65">65</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR66">66</xref>]. Another study [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>] found that the median age of ICH patients with non-prolonged LOS was 76&#x000a0;years, while those with prolonged LOS had a median age of 73&#x000a0;years, suggesting a negative correlation between age and prolonged LOS (OR 0.988, 95%CI 0.985&#x02013;0.992, p&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.001), which was consistent with our findings. Although elderly patients were at a greater risk of encountering in-hospital complications and severe stroke [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR67">67</xref>], which frequently prolonged their LOS, our study speculated that the discrepancy in healthcare resource allocation among various age could be another contributing factor influencing LOS [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR68">68</xref>]. Younger patients, due to occupational demands, may require a longer recovery period before returning to work. Additionally, they may have greater access to rehabilitation services and be more inclined to undergo extended rehabilitation, contributing to a prolonged LOS. Further studies incorporating detailed socioeconomic and rehabilitation data are needed to better understand the underlying reasons for this association.</p><p id="Par46">Consistent with a previous study [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR55">55</xref>], our findings also revealed regional differences in LOS after ICH, which may be attributed to variations in the quality of care across hospitals in different regions. This suggested the necessity for further enhancements in the uniformity of ICH management across different regions.</p><p id="Par47">Some studies reported a prolonged LOS in the emergency department [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR69">69</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR70">70</xref>] and stroke unit [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR71">71</xref>] could improve the outcome of ICH patients. However, prior research had not thoroughly examined the relationship between the overall LOS and ICH outcomes. In this study, prolonged LOS was defined as exceeding 14&#x000a0;days, and no significant differences in 3-month and 12-month outcomes were observed between the prolonged and normal LOS group in ICH patients. And the result was consistent in several models after adjusting for patient and hospital characteristics. Additionally, we also employed propensity score matching to mitigate confounding bias and the results remained consistent. The subgroup analyses based on age, sex, socioeconomic factors, medical history, discharge destination, or stroke severity still revealed no association between prolonged LOS and poor outcomes. Although discharge decisions should be tailored to individual patient conditions, our findings suggested that extending the LOS beyond 14&#x000a0;days did not improve the overall prognosis of ICH patients in out cohort. Moreover, key diagnostic evaluations and treatments for ICH are typically required to be conduct during the early stage of hospitalization [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR72">72</xref>]. Therefore, extended hospitalization did not improve the patient&#x02019;s outcome as previously thought.</p><p id="Par48">The strength of this study lied in its large-sample, multicenter cohort design, which captured detailed socioeconomic data across multiple regions in China. However, this study had some limitations. Firstly, as an observational study, systematic biases may exist, necessitating caution in causal interpretations. Despite implementing multivariable regression models, propensity score matching, and comprehensive subgroup analyses, residual confounding bias may persist due to baseline characteristics and discharge destination disparities, and unmeasured variables such as hematoma characteristics. Moreover, the potential existence of reverse causality warranted further interventional studies to validate our results. Secondly, we should acknowledge that defining prolonged LOS as&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;14&#x000a0;days was somewhat arbitrary, even if the sensitivity analysis using LOS as a continuous variable produced a similar result with our main analysis. Given an exploratory and preliminary study, defining a reasonable LOS threshold for ICH would require further research and validation. Third, the calculation of LOS limited to the index hospitalization may underestimate total LOS for the transferred patients. While the sensitivity analyses employing the expanded criteria of prolonged LOS and stratified home-discharged cohort evaluations corroborated conclusion stability, future investigations incorporating comprehensive transfer documentation may further enhance measurement accuracy. Fourthly, stroke severity was a crucial predictor of functional outcome [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR73">73</xref>]. We employed the baseline GCS score as a marker of ICH severity in our analysis due to the availability of data. While the GCS score demonstrated relative effectiveness in predicting mortality after ICH, its utility in forecasting functional outcomes and its reliability in patients with sedation or intubation remained less well established [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR73">73</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR74">74</xref>]. Incorporating multidimensional baseline ICH severity measurements, including hematoma volume, location, the presence of intraventricular hemorrhage, NIHSS score, and the ICH score would enhance the robustness of the research findings in future studies [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR72">72</xref>]. Fifthly, our study faced limitations from temporally dependent confounders, particularly hematoma expansion and hospital-acquired complications that emerged post-baseline assessment and were clinically established as predictors of poor prognosis [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR28">28</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR51">51</xref>]. While we had included some in-hospital diagnostic and treatment details such as use of mechanical ventilation, complications during hospitalization in our analysis, systematic integration of continuous monitoring of neurological function and hematoma progression into future prospective cohort studies would substantially enhance the validity of results. Sixthly, to ensure better homogeneity among the included patients and the interpretability of research findings, we excluded the patients with low GCS scores, in-hospital mortality, or LOS exceeding 60&#x000a0;days in our analysis. However, this exclusion may limit the generalizability of our results. Seventhly, our study revealed variations in LOS across geographic regions. The enrolled hospitals in the China QUEST study were all located in cities, which precluded comparative analysis of urban&#x02013;rural disparities in LOS after ICH and constituted a limitation that should be addressed in subsequent research. Eighthly, follow-up data were collected through telephone interviews, which might introduce bias. However, prior studies had validated this method&#x02019;s reliability [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR75">75</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR76">76</xref>]. Ninthly, the China QUEST study was conducted at an earlier stage, which would influence the applicability of our results. However, despite advances in treatment that have been made in recent years, the treatment guidelines for ICH have not undergone significant changes, which warrants the significance of our study [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR72">72</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR77">77</xref>]. Finally, considering the significant difference in LOS across countries, it should be cautioned to generalize our results to other countries.</p></sec><sec id="Sec13"><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par49">In mild to moderate ICH patients, several factors contributed to prolonged LOS, including younger age, higher income, medical insurance coverage, prior use of antithrombotic medications, in-hospital infection complication, and the hospital&#x02019;s region. Notably, a prolonged LOS did not significantly correlate with better outcome at 3 or 12&#x000a0;months. This study was an exploratory analysis based on an observational cohort, and further research is needed to validate these findings.</p></sec><sec id="Sec118" sec-type="supplementary-material"><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>
<supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM1"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4241_MOESM1_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Additional file 1: Table S1-S8. Table S1. Patient Characteristics stratified by LOS in Propensity Score-Matched Cohorts. Table S2. Multivariable linear regression analysis of predictors of prolonged LOS in patients of ICH. Table S3. Patient characteristics stratified by the expanded definition of prolonged LOS. Table S4. Multivariable analysis of predictors of prolonged LOS&#x000a0;(the expanded definition)&#x000a0;in patients with ICH. Table S5. Association between prolonged LOS&#x000a0;(the expanded definition)&#x000a0;and poor outcome at 3 and 12&#x000a0;months after ICH in unadjusted and adjusted models. Table S6. Patient characteristics stratified by LOS among patients discharged home. Table S7. Multivariable analysis of predictors of prolonged LOS among patients discharged home. Table S8. Association between prolonged LOS and poor outcome at 3 and 12&#x000a0;months after ICH among patients discharged home in unadjusted and adjusted models.</p></caption></media></supplementary-material></p></sec></body><back><glossary><title>Abbreviations</title><def-list><def-item><term>BMI</term><def><p id="Par9">Body mass index</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>GCS</term><def><p id="Par10">Glasgow coma scale</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ICH</term><def><p id="Par11">Intracerebral hemorrhage</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>IQR</term><def><p id="Par12">Interquartile ranges</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>LOS</term><def><p id="Par13">Length of stay</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>QUEST</term><def><p id="Par14">Quality Evaluation of Stroke Care and Treatment</p></def></def-item></def-list></glossary><fn-group><fn><p><bold>Publisher&#x02019;s Note</bold></p><p>A list of authors and their affiliations appears at the end of the paper.</p></fn></fn-group><ack><title>Acknowledgements</title><p>We sincerely thank all the patients and their families for their cooperation in participating in the study and the staff associated with the study for data collection and management.
</p></ack><notes notes-type="author-contribution"><title>Authors&#x02019; contributions</title><p>Z.Z.Z: Conceptualization, Methodology, Investigation, Data Curation, Formal Analysis, Writing&#x02014;Original Draft. J.Y.L: Data Curation, Formal Analysis, Validation. W.Z.W: Investigation, Data Curation. H.W.W: Investigation, Data Collection. J.L.S: Resources, Investigation, Data Curation, Writing&#x02014;Review &#x00026; Editing. H.Q.J: Resources, Supervision, Writing&#x02014;Review &#x00026; Editing. P.S: Supervision, Methodology, Writing&#x02014;Review &#x00026; Editing. C.S.A: Supervision, Conceptualization, Writing&#x02014;Review &#x00026; Editing. Z.X.W: Conceptualization, Supervision, Writing&#x02014;Review &#x00026; Editing. Y.N.H: Supervision, Writing&#x02014;Review &#x00026; Editing. W.P.S: Conceptualization, Project Administration, Funding Acquisition, Supervision, Writing&#x02014;Review &#x00026; Editing. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
</p></notes><notes notes-type="funding-information"><title>Funding</title><p>The ChinaQUEST study was supported by grants from the Macquarie Bank Foundation, The George Foundation, and AstraZeneca Pharmaceutical China. This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 81400944), the Interdisciplinary Clinical Research Project of Peking University First Hospital (No. 2021CR37), and National High Level Hospital Clinical Research Funding (Interdepartmental Research Project of Peking University First Hospital) (grant number: 2023IR29).</p></notes><notes notes-type="data-availability"><title>Data availability</title><p>The data analyzed during the current study are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.
</p></notes><notes><title>Declarations</title><notes id="FPar2"><title>Ethics approval and consent to participate</title><p id="Par50">This study was approved by the Ethics Committee of Peking University First Hospital, Beijing, and the ethics approval reference number is 2006&#x02013;011. Written informed consent was obtained from all participants prior to inclusion in the study.</p></notes><notes id="FPar3"><title>Consent for publication</title><p id="Par51">Written informed consent for publication of their clinical details was obtained from the patient (or their parent/legal guardian for patients under 18&#x000a0;years old).</p></notes><notes id="FPar4" notes-type="COI-statement"><title>Competing interests</title><p id="Par52">The authors declare no competing interests.</p></notes></notes><ref-list id="Bib1"><title>References</title><ref id="CR1"><label>1.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR1" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>MacKenzie</surname><given-names>JM</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Intracerebral haemorrhage</article-title><source>J Clin Pathol</source><year>1996</year><volume>49</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>360</fpage><lpage>364</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1136/jcp.49.5.360</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 8707946?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">8707946</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR1" publication-type="journal">MacKenzie JM. Intracerebral haemorrhage. J Clin Pathol. 1996;49(5):360&#x02013;4.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">8707946</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR2"><label>2.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR2" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Russell</surname><given-names>MW</given-names></name><name><surname>Joshi</surname><given-names>AV</given-names></name><name><surname>Neumann</surname><given-names>PJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Boulanger</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Menzin</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Predictors of hospital length of stay and cost in patients with intracerebral hemorrhage</article-title><source>Neurology</source><year>2006</year><volume>67</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>1279</fpage><lpage>1281</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1212/01.wnl.0000238349.28146.46</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 17030767?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17030767</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR2" publication-type="journal">Russell MW, Joshi AV, Neumann PJ, Boulanger L, Menzin J. Predictors of hospital length of stay and cost in patients with intracerebral hemorrhage. Neurology. 2006;67(7):1279&#x02013;81.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17030767</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR3"><label>3.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR3" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Fernando</surname><given-names>SM</given-names></name><name><surname>Qureshi</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Talarico</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Dowlatshahi</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Sood</surname><given-names>MM</given-names></name><name><surname>Smith</surname><given-names>EE</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Short- and Long-term Health Care Resource Utilization and Costs Following Intracerebral Hemorrhage</article-title><source>Neurology</source><year>2021</year><volume>97</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>e608</fpage><lpage>e618</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1212/WNL.0000000000012355</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 34108269?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34108269</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR3" publication-type="journal">Fernando SM, Qureshi D, Talarico R, Dowlatshahi D, Sood MM, Smith EE, et al. Short- and Long-term Health Care Resource Utilization and Costs Following Intracerebral Hemorrhage. Neurology. 2021;97(6):e608&#x02013;18.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34108269</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR4"><label>4.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR4" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Kong</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Lian</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhao</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhao</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>Q</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Distribution and predictors of hospital charges for haemorrhagic stroke patients in Beijing, China, March 2012 to February 2015: a retrospective study</article-title><source>BMJ Open</source><year>2018</year><volume>8</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>e017693</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1136/bmjopen-2017-017693</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 29602836?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29602836</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR4" publication-type="journal">Liu X, Kong D, Lian H, Zhao X, Zhao Y, Xu Q, et al. Distribution and predictors of hospital charges for haemorrhagic stroke patients in Beijing, China, March 2012 to February 2015: a retrospective study. BMJ Open. 2018;8(3):e017693.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29602836</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR5"><label>5.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Caro JJ, Huybrechts KF, Duchesne I. Management patterns and costs of acute ischemic stroke&#x0202f;: an international study. For the Stroke Economic Analysis Group. Stroke. 2000;31(3):582&#x02013;90.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR6"><label>6.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR6" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>J&#x000f8;rgensen</surname><given-names>HS</given-names></name><name><surname>Nakayama</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Raaschou</surname><given-names>HO</given-names></name><name><surname>Olsen</surname><given-names>TS</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Acute stroke care and rehabilitation: an analysis of the direct cost and its clinical and social determinants</article-title><source>The Copenhagen Stroke Study Stroke</source><year>1997</year><volume>28</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>1138</fpage><lpage>1141</lpage><?supplied-pmid 9183339?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">9183339</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR6" publication-type="journal">J&#x000f8;rgensen HS, Nakayama H, Raaschou HO, Olsen TS. Acute stroke care and rehabilitation: an analysis of the direct cost and its clinical and social determinants. The Copenhagen Stroke Study Stroke. 1997;28(6):1138&#x02013;41.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">9183339</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR7"><label>7.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR7" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Reed</surname><given-names>SD</given-names></name><name><surname>Blough</surname><given-names>DK</given-names></name><name><surname>Meyer</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Jarvik</surname><given-names>JG</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Inpatient costs, length of stay, and mortality for cerebrovascular events in community hospitals</article-title><source>Neurology</source><year>2001</year><volume>57</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>305</fpage><lpage>314</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1212/WNL.57.2.305</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 11468317?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">11468317</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR7" publication-type="journal">Reed SD, Blough DK, Meyer K, Jarvik JG. Inpatient costs, length of stay, and mortality for cerebrovascular events in community hospitals. Neurology. 2001;57(2):305&#x02013;14.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">11468317</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR8"><label>8.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR8" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kwok</surname><given-names>CS</given-names></name><name><surname>Clark</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Ford</surname><given-names>GA</given-names></name><name><surname>Durairaj</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Dixit</surname><given-names>AK</given-names></name><name><surname>Davis</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association between prestroke disability and inpatient mortality and length of acute hospital stay after acute stroke</article-title><source>J Am Geriatr Soc</source><year>2012</year><volume>60</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>726</fpage><lpage>732</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1111/j.1532-5415.2011.03889.x</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 22316344?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22316344</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR8" publication-type="journal">Kwok CS, Clark A, Ford GA, Durairaj R, Dixit AK, Davis J, et al. Association between prestroke disability and inpatient mortality and length of acute hospital stay after acute stroke. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2012;60(4):726&#x02013;32.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22316344</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR9"><label>9.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR9" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Maramattom</surname><given-names>BV</given-names></name><name><surname>Weigand</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Reinalda</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Wijdicks</surname><given-names>EF</given-names></name><name><surname>Manno</surname><given-names>EM</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Pulmonary complications after intracerebral hemorrhage</article-title><source>Neurocrit Care</source><year>2006</year><volume>5</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>115</fpage><lpage>119</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1385/NCC:5:2:115</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 17099257?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17099257</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR9" publication-type="journal">Maramattom BV, Weigand S, Reinalda M, Wijdicks EF, Manno EM. Pulmonary complications after intracerebral hemorrhage. Neurocrit Care. 2006;5(2):115&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17099257</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR10"><label>10.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR10" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Naidech</surname><given-names>AM</given-names></name><name><surname>Bendok</surname><given-names>BR</given-names></name><name><surname>Tamul</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Bassin</surname><given-names>SL</given-names></name><name><surname>Watts</surname><given-names>CM</given-names></name><name><surname>Batjer</surname><given-names>HH</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Medical complications drive length of stay after brain hemorrhage: a cohort study</article-title><source>Neurocrit Care</source><year>2009</year><volume>10</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>11</fpage><lpage>19</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1007/s12028-008-9148-x</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 18821035?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18821035</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR10" publication-type="journal">Naidech AM, Bendok BR, Tamul P, Bassin SL, Watts CM, Batjer HH, et al. Medical complications drive length of stay after brain hemorrhage: a cohort study. Neurocrit Care. 2009;10(1):11&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18821035</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR11"><label>11.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR11" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Nuyen</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Spreeuwenberg</surname><given-names>PM</given-names></name><name><surname>Groenewegen</surname><given-names>PP</given-names></name><name><surname>van den Bos</surname><given-names>GA</given-names></name><name><surname>Schellevis</surname><given-names>FG</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Impact of preexisting depression on length of stay and discharge destination among patients hospitalized for acute stroke: linked register-based study</article-title><source>Stroke</source><year>2008</year><volume>39</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>132</fpage><lpage>138</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1161/STROKEAHA.107.490565</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 18063828?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18063828</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR11" publication-type="journal">Nuyen J, Spreeuwenberg PM, Groenewegen PP, van den Bos GA, Schellevis FG. Impact of preexisting depression on length of stay and discharge destination among patients hospitalized for acute stroke: linked register-based study. Stroke. 2008;39(1):132&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18063828</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR12"><label>12.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR12" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Hong</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Stradling</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Dastur</surname><given-names>CK</given-names></name><name><surname>Akbari</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Groysman</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Al-Khoury</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Resistant Hypertension after Hypertensive Intracerebral Hemorrhage Is Associated with More Medical Interventions and Longer Hospital Stays without Affecting Outcome</article-title><source>Front Neurol</source><year>2017</year><volume>8</volume><fpage>184</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.3389/fneur.2017.00184</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 28515710?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28515710</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR12" publication-type="journal">Hong D, Stradling D, Dastur CK, Akbari Y, Groysman L, Al-Khoury L, et al. Resistant Hypertension after Hypertensive Intracerebral Hemorrhage Is Associated with More Medical Interventions and Longer Hospital Stays without Affecting Outcome. Front Neurol. 2017;8:184.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28515710</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR13"><label>13.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR13" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Stein</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Misselwitz</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Hamann</surname><given-names>GF</given-names></name><name><surname>Kolodziej</surname><given-names>MA</given-names></name><name><surname>Reinges</surname><given-names>MHT</given-names></name><name><surname>Uhl</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Defining Prolonged Length of Acute Care Stay for Surgically and Conservatively Treated Patients with Spontaneous Intracerebral Hemorrhage: A Population-Based Analysis</article-title><source>Biomed Res Int</source><year>2016</year><volume>2016</volume><fpage>9095263</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1155/2016/9095263</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 27110572?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27110572</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR13" publication-type="journal">Stein M, Misselwitz B, Hamann GF, Kolodziej MA, Reinges MHT, Uhl E. Defining Prolonged Length of Acute Care Stay for Surgically and Conservatively Treated Patients with Spontaneous Intracerebral Hemorrhage: A Population-Based Analysis. Biomed Res Int. 2016;2016:9095263.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27110572</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR14"><label>14.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR14" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Specogna</surname><given-names>AV</given-names></name><name><surname>Turin</surname><given-names>TC</given-names></name><name><surname>Patten</surname><given-names>SB</given-names></name><name><surname>Hill</surname><given-names>MD</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Hospital treatment costs and length of stay associated with hypertension and multimorbidity after hemorrhagic stroke</article-title><source>BMC Neurol</source><year>2017</year><volume>17</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>158</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12883-017-0930-2</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 28797241?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28797241</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR14" publication-type="journal">Specogna AV, Turin TC, Patten SB, Hill MD. Hospital treatment costs and length of stay associated with hypertension and multimorbidity after hemorrhagic stroke. BMC Neurol. 2017;17(1):158.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28797241</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR15"><label>15.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR15" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Koton</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Luengo-Fernandez</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Mehta</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Rothwell</surname><given-names>PM</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Independent Validation of the Prolonged Length of Stay Score</article-title><source>Neuroepidemiology</source><year>2010</year><volume>35</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>263</fpage><lpage>266</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1159/000320241</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 20881429?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20881429</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR15" publication-type="journal">Koton S, Luengo-Fernandez R, Mehta Z, Rothwell PM. Independent Validation of the Prolonged Length of Stay Score. Neuroepidemiology. 2010;35(4):263&#x02013;6.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20881429</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR16"><label>16.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR16" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Koton</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Bornstein</surname><given-names>NM</given-names></name><name><surname>Tsabari</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Tanne</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>NASIS</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Derivation and validation of the Prolonged Length of Stay score in acute stroke patients</article-title><source>Neurology.</source><year>2010</year><volume>74</volume><issue>19</issue><fpage>1511</fpage><lpage>6</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1212/WNL.0b013e3181dd4dc5</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 20458067?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20458067</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR16" publication-type="journal">Koton S, Bornstein NM, Tsabari R, Tanne D, NASIS I. Derivation and validation of the Prolonged Length of Stay score in acute stroke patients. Neurology. 2010;74(19):1511&#x02013;6.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20458067</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR17"><label>17.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR17" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Deng</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Jiao</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Hu</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhao</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Reduction of length of stay and costs through the implementation of clinical pathways for stroke management in China</article-title><source>Stroke</source><year>2014</year><volume>45</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>e81</fpage><lpage>e83</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1161/STROKEAHA.114.004729</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 24676776?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24676776</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR17" publication-type="journal">Deng Y, Jiao Y, Hu R, Wang Y, Wang Y, Zhao X. Reduction of length of stay and costs through the implementation of clinical pathways for stroke management in China. Stroke. 2014;45(5):e81&#x02013;3.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24676776</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR18"><label>18.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR18" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Mechanic</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Tompkins</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Lessons learned preparing for Medicare bundled payments</article-title><source>N Engl J Med</source><year>2012</year><volume>367</volume><issue>20</issue><fpage>1873</fpage><lpage>1875</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1056/NEJMp1210823</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 23150955?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23150955</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR18" publication-type="journal">Mechanic R, Tompkins C. Lessons learned preparing for Medicare bundled payments. N Engl J Med. 2012;367(20):1873&#x02013;5.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23150955</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR19"><label>19.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR19" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Swaminathan</surname><given-names>RV</given-names></name><name><surname>Rao</surname><given-names>SV</given-names></name><name><surname>McCoy</surname><given-names>LA</given-names></name><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>LK</given-names></name><name><surname>Minutello</surname><given-names>RM</given-names></name><name><surname>Wong</surname><given-names>SC</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Hospital length of stay and clinical outcomes in older STEMI patients after primary PCI: a report from the National Cardiovascular Data Registry</article-title><source>J Am Coll Cardiol</source><year>2015</year><volume>65</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>1161</fpage><lpage>1171</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.jacc.2015.01.028</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 25814223?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25814223</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR19" publication-type="journal">Swaminathan RV, Rao SV, McCoy LA, Kim LK, Minutello RM, Wong SC, et al. Hospital length of stay and clinical outcomes in older STEMI patients after primary PCI: a report from the National Cardiovascular Data Registry. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2015;65(12):1161&#x02013;71.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25814223</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR20"><label>20.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR20" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wei</surname><given-names>JW</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>JG</given-names></name><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Wong</surname><given-names>LK</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Secondary prevention of ischemic stroke in urban China</article-title><source>Stroke</source><year>2010</year><volume>41</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>967</fpage><lpage>974</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1161/STROKEAHA.109.571463</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 20224061?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20224061</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR20" publication-type="journal">Wei JW, Wang JG, Huang Y, Liu M, Wu Y, Wong LK, et al. Secondary prevention of ischemic stroke in urban China. Stroke. 2010;41(5):967&#x02013;74.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20224061</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR21"><label>21.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR21" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wei</surname><given-names>JW</given-names></name><name><surname>Arima</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>JG</given-names></name><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>Q</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Variation in the frequency of intracerebral haemorrhage and ischaemic stroke in China: a national, multicentre, hospital register study</article-title><source>Cerebrovasc Dis</source><year>2010</year><volume>29</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>321</fpage><lpage>327</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1159/000278927</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 20130397?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20130397</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR21" publication-type="journal">Wei JW, Arima H, Huang Y, Wang JG, Yang Q, Liu Z, et al. Variation in the frequency of intracerebral haemorrhage and ischaemic stroke in China: a national, multicentre, hospital register study. Cerebrovasc Dis. 2010;29(4):321&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20130397</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR22"><label>22.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR22" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Stevens</surname><given-names>JP</given-names></name><name><surname>Nyweide</surname><given-names>DJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Maresh</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Hatfield</surname><given-names>LA</given-names></name><name><surname>Howell</surname><given-names>MD</given-names></name><name><surname>Landon</surname><given-names>BE</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Comparison of Hospital Resource Use and Outcomes Among Hospitalists, Primary Care Physicians, and Other Generalists</article-title><source>JAMA Intern Med</source><year>2017</year><volume>177</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>1781</fpage><lpage>1787</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1001/jamainternmed.2017.5824</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 29131897?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29131897</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR22" publication-type="journal">Stevens JP, Nyweide DJ, Maresh S, Hatfield LA, Howell MD, Landon BE. Comparison of Hospital Resource Use and Outcomes Among Hospitalists, Primary Care Physicians, and Other Generalists. JAMA Intern Med. 2017;177(12):1781&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29131897</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR23"><label>23.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR23" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Stevens</surname><given-names>JP</given-names></name><name><surname>Hatfield</surname><given-names>LA</given-names></name><name><surname>Nyweide</surname><given-names>DJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Landon</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Association of Variation in Consultant Use Among Hospitalist Physicians With Outcomes Among Medicare Beneficiaries</article-title><source>JAMA Netw Open</source><year>2020</year><volume>3</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>e1921750</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2019.21750</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 32083694?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32083694</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR23" publication-type="journal">Stevens JP, Hatfield LA, Nyweide DJ, Landon B. Association of Variation in Consultant Use Among Hospitalist Physicians With Outcomes Among Medicare Beneficiaries. JAMA Netw Open. 2020;3(2):e1921750.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32083694</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR24"><label>24.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR24" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kurtz</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Peres</surname><given-names>IT</given-names></name><name><surname>Soares</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Salluh</surname><given-names>JIF</given-names></name><name><surname>Bozza</surname><given-names>FA</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Hospital Length of Stay and 30-Day Mortality Prediction in Stroke: A Machine Learning Analysis of 17,000 ICU Admissions in Brazil</article-title><source>Neurocrit Care</source><year>2022</year><volume>37</volume><issue>Suppl 2</issue><fpage>313</fpage><lpage>321</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1007/s12028-022-01486-3</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 35381967?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35381967</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR24" publication-type="journal">Kurtz P, Peres IT, Soares M, Salluh JIF, Bozza FA. Hospital Length of Stay and 30-Day Mortality Prediction in Stroke: A Machine Learning Analysis of 17,000 ICU Admissions in Brazil. Neurocrit Care. 2022;37(Suppl 2):313&#x02013;21.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35381967</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR25"><label>25.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR25" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Ma</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>You</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Timing and Outcomes of Tracheostomy in Patients with Hemorrhagic Stroke</article-title><source>World Neurosurg</source><year>2019</year><volume>131</volume><fpage>e606</fpage><lpage>e613</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.wneu.2019.08.013</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 31408751?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31408751</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR25" publication-type="journal">Chen W, Liu F, Chen J, Ma L, Li G, You C. Timing and Outcomes of Tracheostomy in Patients with Hemorrhagic Stroke. World Neurosurg. 2019;131:e606&#x02013;13.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31408751</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR26"><label>26.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR26" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Elmer</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Pallin</surname><given-names>DJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Pearson</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Chang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Camargo</surname><given-names>CA</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Prolonged emergency department length of stay is not associated with worse outcomes in patients with intracerebral hemorrhage</article-title><source>Neurocrit Care</source><year>2012</year><volume>17</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>334</fpage><lpage>342</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1007/s12028-011-9629-1</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 21912953?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21912953</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR26" publication-type="journal">Elmer J, Pallin DJ, Liu S, Pearson C, Chang Y, Camargo CA, et al. Prolonged emergency department length of stay is not associated with worse outcomes in patients with intracerebral hemorrhage. Neurocrit Care. 2012;17(3):334&#x02013;42.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21912953</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR27"><label>27.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR27" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Xian</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Holloway</surname><given-names>RG</given-names></name><name><surname>Smith</surname><given-names>EE</given-names></name><name><surname>Schwamm</surname><given-names>LH</given-names></name><name><surname>Reeves</surname><given-names>MJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Bhatt</surname><given-names>DL</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Racial/Ethnic differences in process of care and outcomes among patients hospitalized with intracerebral hemorrhage</article-title><source>Stroke</source><year>2014</year><volume>45</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>3243</fpage><lpage>3250</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1161/STROKEAHA.114.005620</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 25213344?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25213344</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR27" publication-type="journal">Xian Y, Holloway RG, Smith EE, Schwamm LH, Reeves MJ, Bhatt DL, et al. Racial/Ethnic differences in process of care and outcomes among patients hospitalized with intracerebral hemorrhage. Stroke. 2014;45(11):3243&#x02013;50.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25213344</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR28"><label>28.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR28" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Murthy</surname><given-names>SB</given-names></name><name><surname>Moradiya</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Shah</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Merkler</surname><given-names>AE</given-names></name><name><surname>Mangat</surname><given-names>HS</given-names></name><name><surname>Iadacola</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Nosocomial Infections and Outcomes after Intracerebral Hemorrhage: A Population-Based Study</article-title><source>Neurocrit Care</source><year>2016</year><volume>25</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>178</fpage><lpage>184</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1007/s12028-016-0282-6</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 27350549?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27350549</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR28" publication-type="journal">Murthy SB, Moradiya Y, Shah J, Merkler AE, Mangat HS, Iadacola C, et al. Nosocomial Infections and Outcomes after Intracerebral Hemorrhage: A Population-Based Study. Neurocrit Care. 2016;25(2):178&#x02013;84.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27350549</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR29"><label>29.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR29" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Hevesi</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Bershad</surname><given-names>EM</given-names></name><name><surname>Jafari</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Mayer</surname><given-names>SA</given-names></name><name><surname>Selim</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Suarez</surname><given-names>JI</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Untreated hypertension as predictor of in-hospital mortality in intracerebral hemorrhage: A multi-center study</article-title><source>J Crit Care</source><year>2018</year><volume>43</volume><fpage>235</fpage><lpage>239</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.jcrc.2017.09.010</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 28934706?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28934706</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR29" publication-type="journal">Hevesi M, Bershad EM, Jafari M, Mayer SA, Selim M, Suarez JI, et al. Untreated hypertension as predictor of in-hospital mortality in intracerebral hemorrhage: A multi-center study. J Crit Care. 2018;43:235&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28934706</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR30"><label>30.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR30" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Malhotra</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Rumalla</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Mittal</surname><given-names>MK</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Association and Clinical Outcomes of Marijuana in Patients with Intracerebral Hemorrhage</article-title><source>J Stroke Cerebrovasc Dis</source><year>2018</year><volume>27</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>3479</fpage><lpage>3486</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2018.08.011</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 30197168?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30197168</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR30" publication-type="journal">Malhotra K, Rumalla K, Mittal MK. Association and Clinical Outcomes of Marijuana in Patients with Intracerebral Hemorrhage. J Stroke Cerebrovasc Dis. 2018;27(12):3479&#x02013;86.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30197168</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR31"><label>31.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR31" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Murthy</surname><given-names>SB</given-names></name><name><surname>Moradiya</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Hanley</surname><given-names>DF</given-names></name><name><surname>Ziai</surname><given-names>WC</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Palliative Care Utilization in Nontraumatic Intracerebral Hemorrhage in the United States</article-title><source>Crit Care Med</source><year>2016</year><volume>44</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>575</fpage><lpage>582</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1097/CCM.0000000000001391</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 26496450?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26496450</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR31" publication-type="journal">Murthy SB, Moradiya Y, Hanley DF, Ziai WC. Palliative Care Utilization in Nontraumatic Intracerebral Hemorrhage in the United States. Crit Care Med. 2016;44(3):575&#x02013;82.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26496450</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR32"><label>32.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR32" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Patel</surname><given-names>AA</given-names></name><name><surname>Mahajan</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Benjo</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Pathak</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Kar</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Jani</surname><given-names>VB</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>A Nationwide Analysis of Outcomes of Weekend Admissions for Intracerebral Hemorrhage Shows Disparities Based on Hospital Teaching Status</article-title><source>Neurohospitalist</source><year>2016</year><volume>6</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>51</fpage><lpage>58</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1177/1941874415601164</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 27053981?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27053981</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR32" publication-type="journal">Patel AA, Mahajan A, Benjo A, Pathak A, Kar J, Jani VB, et al. A Nationwide Analysis of Outcomes of Weekend Admissions for Intracerebral Hemorrhage Shows Disparities Based on Hospital Teaching Status. Neurohospitalist. 2016;6(2):51&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27053981</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR33"><label>33.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR33" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Suri</surname><given-names>MFK</given-names></name><name><surname>Vazquez</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Ezzeddine</surname><given-names>MA</given-names></name><name><surname>Qureshi</surname><given-names>AI</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>A multicenter comparison of outcomes associated with intravenous nitroprusside and nicardipine treatment among patients with intracerebral hemorrhage</article-title><source>Neurocrit Care</source><year>2009</year><volume>11</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>50</fpage><lpage>55</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1007/s12028-009-9192-1</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 19224405?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">19224405</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR33" publication-type="journal">Suri MFK, Vazquez G, Ezzeddine MA, Qureshi AI. A multicenter comparison of outcomes associated with intravenous nitroprusside and nicardipine treatment among patients with intracerebral hemorrhage. Neurocrit Care. 2009;11(1):50&#x02013;5.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">19224405</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR34"><label>34.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR34" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Stepanova</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Venkatesan</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Altaweel</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Mishra</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Younossi</surname><given-names>ZM</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Recent trends in inpatient mortality and resource utilization for patients with stroke in the United States: 2005&#x02013;2009</article-title><source>J Stroke Cerebrovasc Dis</source><year>2013</year><volume>22</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>491</fpage><lpage>499</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2013.03.005</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 23545319?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23545319</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR34" publication-type="journal">Stepanova M, Venkatesan C, Altaweel L, Mishra A, Younossi ZM. Recent trends in inpatient mortality and resource utilization for patients with stroke in the United States: 2005&#x02013;2009. J Stroke Cerebrovasc Dis. 2013;22(4):491&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">23545319</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR35"><label>35.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR35" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Raj</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Bendel</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Reinikainen</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Hoppu</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Laitio</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Ala-Kokko</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Costs, outcome and cost-effectiveness of neurocritical care: a multi-center observational study</article-title><source>Crit Care</source><year>2018</year><volume>22</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>225</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s13054-018-2151-5</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 30236140?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30236140</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR35" publication-type="journal">Raj R, Bendel S, Reinikainen M, Hoppu S, Laitio R, Ala-Kokko T, et al. Costs, outcome and cost-effectiveness of neurocritical care: a multi-center observational study. Crit Care. 2018;22(1):225.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30236140</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR36"><label>36.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR36" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Dodel</surname><given-names>RC</given-names></name><name><surname>Haacke</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Zamzow</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Paweilik</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Spottke</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Rethfeldt</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Resource utilization and costs of stroke unit care in Germany</article-title><source>Value Health</source><year>2004</year><volume>7</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>144</fpage><lpage>152</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1111/j.1524-4733.2004.72314.x</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 15164804?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15164804</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR36" publication-type="journal">Dodel RC, Haacke C, Zamzow K, Paweilik S, Spottke A, Rethfeldt M, et al. Resource utilization and costs of stroke unit care in Germany. Value Health. 2004;7(2):144&#x02013;52.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15164804</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR37"><label>37.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR37" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sun</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Toh</surname><given-names>MPHS</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Impact of diabetes mellitus (DM) on the health-care utilization and clinical outcomes of patients with stroke in Singapore</article-title><source>Value Health</source><year>2009</year><volume>12</volume><issue>Suppl 3</issue><fpage>S101</fpage><lpage>105</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00639.x</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 20586969?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20586969</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR37" publication-type="journal">Sun Y, Toh MPHS. Impact of diabetes mellitus (DM) on the health-care utilization and clinical outcomes of patients with stroke in Singapore. Value Health. 2009;12(Suppl 3):S101-105.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20586969</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR38"><label>38.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR38" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Vieira</surname><given-names>LGDR</given-names></name><name><surname>Safanelli</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>de Araujo</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Schuch</surname><given-names>HA</given-names></name><name><surname>Kuhlhoff</surname><given-names>MHR</given-names></name><name><surname>Nagel</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The cost of stroke in private hospitals in Brazil: a one-year prospective study</article-title><source>Arq Neuropsiquiatr</source><year>2019</year><volume>77</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>393</fpage><lpage>403</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1590/0004-282x20190056</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 31314841?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31314841</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR38" publication-type="journal">Vieira LGDR, Safanelli J, de Araujo T, Schuch HA, Kuhlhoff MHR, Nagel V, et al. The cost of stroke in private hospitals in Brazil: a one-year prospective study. Arq Neuropsiquiatr. 2019;77(6):393&#x02013;403.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31314841</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR39"><label>39.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR39" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Murata</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Hinotsu</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Sadamasa</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Yoshida</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Yamagata</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Asari</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Healthcare resource utilization and clinical outcomes associated with acute care and inpatient rehabilitation of stroke patients in Japan</article-title><source>Int J Qual Health Care</source><year>2017</year><volume>29</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>26</fpage><lpage>31</lpage><?supplied-pmid 27979962?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27979962</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR39" publication-type="journal">Murata K, Hinotsu S, Sadamasa N, Yoshida K, Yamagata S, Asari S, et al. Healthcare resource utilization and clinical outcomes associated with acute care and inpatient rehabilitation of stroke patients in Japan. Int J Qual Health Care. 2017;29(1):26&#x02013;31.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27979962</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR40"><label>40.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR40" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>SM</given-names></name><name><surname>Hwang</surname><given-names>SW</given-names></name><name><surname>Oh</surname><given-names>EH</given-names></name><name><surname>Kang</surname><given-names>JK</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Determinants of the length of stay in stroke patients</article-title><source>Osong Public Health Res Perspect</source><year>2013</year><volume>4</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>329</fpage><lpage>341</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.phrp.2013.10.008</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 24524022?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24524022</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR40" publication-type="journal">Kim SM, Hwang SW, Oh EH, Kang JK. Determinants of the length of stay in stroke patients. Osong Public Health Res Perspect. 2013;4(6):329&#x02013;41.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24524022</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR41"><label>41.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR41" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ovbiagele</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Pineda</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Saver</surname><given-names>JL</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Renal dysfunction and discharge destination in patients with intracerebral hemorrhage</article-title><source>J Stroke Cerebrovasc Dis</source><year>2011</year><volume>20</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>145</fpage><lpage>149</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2009.11.012</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 20472461?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20472461</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR41" publication-type="journal">Ovbiagele B, Pineda S, Saver JL. Renal dysfunction and discharge destination in patients with intracerebral hemorrhage. J Stroke Cerebrovasc Dis. 2011;20(2):145&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20472461</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR42"><label>42.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR42" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sun</surname><given-names>JJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Deng</surname><given-names>YM</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>DD</given-names></name><name><surname>Gu</surname><given-names>HQ</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhou</surname><given-names>Q</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>YJ</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Assessment of rehabilitation following intracerebral hemorrhage in China: findings from the Chinese stroke center alliance</article-title><source>Neurol Res</source><year>2023</year><volume>45</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>103</fpage><lpage>111</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1080/01616412.2022.2123174</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 36126147?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36126147</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR42" publication-type="journal">Sun JJ, Deng YM, Wang DD, Gu HQ, Zhou Q, Wang YJ, et al. Assessment of rehabilitation following intracerebral hemorrhage in China: findings from the Chinese stroke center alliance. Neurol Res. 2023;45(2):103&#x02013;11.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36126147</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR43"><label>43.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR43" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Miao</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Xiong</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Guo</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Gu</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhao</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Risk factors and Outcomes of Dysphagia Among Patients Hospitalized with Acute Intracerebral Hemorrhage: Findings from the Chinese Stroke Center Alliance</article-title><source>Altern Ther Health Med</source><year>2024</year><volume>30</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>200</fpage><lpage>205</lpage><?supplied-pmid 38330571?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38330571</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR43" publication-type="journal">Miao Y, Xiong Y, Guo J, Gu H, Yang K, Zhao X. Risk factors and Outcomes of Dysphagia Among Patients Hospitalized with Acute Intracerebral Hemorrhage: Findings from the Chinese Stroke Center Alliance. Altern Ther Health Med. 2024;30(10):200&#x02013;5.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38330571</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR44"><label>44.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR44" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ting</surname><given-names>HW</given-names></name><name><surname>Chien</surname><given-names>TY</given-names></name><name><surname>Lai</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Pan</surname><given-names>RH</given-names></name><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>KH</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>JM</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Differences in Spontaneous Intracerebral Hemorrhage Cases between Urban and Rural Regions of Taiwan: Big Data Analytics of Government Open Data</article-title><source>Int J Environ Res Public Health</source><year>2017</year><volume>14</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>1548</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.3390/ijerph14121548</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 29232864?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29232864</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR44" publication-type="journal">Ting HW, Chien TY, Lai K, Pan RH, Wu KH, Chen JM, et al. Differences in Spontaneous Intracerebral Hemorrhage Cases between Urban and Rural Regions of Taiwan: Big Data Analytics of Government Open Data. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2017;14(12):1548.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29232864</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR45"><label>45.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR45" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Luo</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Jiang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhu</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Predicting Intracerebral Hemorrhage Patients&#x02019; Length-of-Stay Probability Distribution Based on Demographic, Clinical, Admission Diagnosis, and Surgery Information</article-title><source>J Healthc Eng</source><year>2019</year><volume>2019</volume><fpage>4571636</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1155/2019/4571636</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 30809336?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30809336</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR45" publication-type="journal">Luo L, Xu X, Jiang Y, Zhu W. Predicting Intracerebral Hemorrhage Patients&#x02019; Length-of-Stay Probability Distribution Based on Demographic, Clinical, Admission Diagnosis, and Surgery Information. J Healthc Eng. 2019;2019:4571636.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30809336</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR46"><label>46.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR46" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Gu</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Pu</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Duan</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Prior Antithrombotic Therapy is Associated with Increased Risk of Death in Patients with Intracerebral Hemorrhage: Findings from the Chinese Stroke Center Alliance (CSCA) Study</article-title><source>Aging Dis</source><year>2021</year><volume>12</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>1263</fpage><lpage>1271</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.14336/AD.2020.1205</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 34341707?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34341707</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR46" publication-type="journal">Liu D, Gu H, Pu Y, Liu J, Yang K, Duan W, et al. Prior Antithrombotic Therapy is Associated with Increased Risk of Death in Patients with Intracerebral Hemorrhage: Findings from the Chinese Stroke Center Alliance (CSCA) Study. Aging Dis. 2021;12(5):1263&#x02013;71.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34341707</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR47"><label>47.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR47" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ali</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Smith</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Vasan</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Downes</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Schuldt</surname><given-names>BR</given-names></name><name><surname>Odland</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Characterization of length of stay after minimally invasive endoscopic intracerebral hemorrhage evacuation</article-title><source>J Neurointerv Surg</source><year>2023</year><volume>16</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>15</fpage><lpage>23</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1136/jnis-2023-020152</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 36882321?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36882321</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR47" publication-type="journal">Ali M, Smith C, Vasan V, Downes M, Schuldt BR, Odland I, et al. Characterization of length of stay after minimally invasive endoscopic intracerebral hemorrhage evacuation. J Neurointerv Surg. 2023;16(1):15&#x02013;23.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36882321</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR48"><label>48.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR48" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Narula</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Tsikis</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Jinadasa</surname><given-names>SP</given-names></name><name><surname>Parsons</surname><given-names>CS</given-names></name><name><surname>Cook</surname><given-names>CH</given-names></name><name><surname>Butt</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The Effect of Anticoagulation and Antiplatelet Use in Trauma Patients on Mortality and Length of Stay</article-title><source>Am Surg</source><year>2022</year><volume>88</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>1137</fpage><lpage>1145</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1177/0003134821989043</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 33522831?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33522831</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR48" publication-type="journal">Narula N, Tsikis S, Jinadasa SP, Parsons CS, Cook CH, Butt B, et al. The Effect of Anticoagulation and Antiplatelet Use in Trauma Patients on Mortality and Length of Stay. Am Surg. 2022;88(6):1137&#x02013;45.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33522831</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR49"><label>49.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR49" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Song</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Sander</surname><given-names>SD</given-names></name><name><surname>Johnson</surname><given-names>BH</given-names></name><name><surname>Varker</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Amin</surname><given-names>AN</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Impact of atrial fibrillation and oral anticoagulation on hospital costs and length of stay</article-title><source>Am J Health Syst Pharm</source><year>2012</year><volume>69</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>329</fpage><lpage>338</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.2146/ajhp110203</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 22302258?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22302258</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR49" publication-type="journal">Song X, Sander SD, Johnson BH, Varker H, Amin AN. Impact of atrial fibrillation and oral anticoagulation on hospital costs and length of stay. Am J Health Syst Pharm. 2012;69(4):329&#x02013;38.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22302258</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR50"><label>50.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR50" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Yildiz</surname><given-names>OK</given-names></name><name><surname>Arsava</surname><given-names>EM</given-names></name><name><surname>Akpinar</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Topcuoglu</surname><given-names>MA</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Previous antiplatelet use is associated with hematoma expansion in patients with spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage</article-title><source>J Stroke Cerebrovasc Dis</source><year>2012</year><volume>21</volume><issue>8</issue><fpage>760</fpage><lpage>766</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2011.04.003</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 21683617?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21683617</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR50" publication-type="journal">Yildiz OK, Arsava EM, Akpinar E, Topcuoglu MA. Previous antiplatelet use is associated with hematoma expansion in patients with spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage. J Stroke Cerebrovasc Dis. 2012;21(8):760&#x02013;6.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21683617</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR51"><label>51.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR51" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kuramatsu</surname><given-names>JB</given-names></name><name><surname>Mauer</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Kiphuth</surname><given-names>IC</given-names></name><name><surname>L&#x000fc;cking</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Kloska</surname><given-names>SP</given-names></name><name><surname>K&#x000f6;hrmann</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Reported antiplatelet use influences long-term outcome independently in deep intracerebral hemorrhage</article-title><source>Neurosurgery.</source><year>2012</year><volume>70</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>342</fpage><lpage>50</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1227/NEU.0b013e3182311266</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 21826030?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21826030</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR51" publication-type="journal">Kuramatsu JB, Mauer C, Kiphuth IC, L&#x000fc;cking H, Kloska SP, K&#x000f6;hrmann M, et al. Reported antiplatelet use influences long-term outcome independently in deep intracerebral hemorrhage. Neurosurgery. 2012;70(2):342&#x02013;50. Discussion 350.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21826030</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR52"><label>52.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR52" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ingeman</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Andersen</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Hundborg</surname><given-names>HH</given-names></name><name><surname>Svendsen</surname><given-names>ML</given-names></name><name><surname>Johnsen</surname><given-names>SP</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>In-Hospital Medical Complications, Length of Stay, and Mortality Among Stroke Unit Patients</article-title><source>Stroke</source><year>2011</year><volume>42</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>3214</fpage><lpage>3218</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1161/STROKEAHA.110.610881</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 21868737?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21868737</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR52" publication-type="journal">Ingeman A, Andersen G, Hundborg HH, Svendsen ML, Johnsen SP. In-Hospital Medical Complications, Length of Stay, and Mortality Among Stroke Unit Patients. Stroke. 2011;42(11):3214&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21868737</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR53"><label>53.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR53" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Divani</surname><given-names>AA</given-names></name><name><surname>Hevesi</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Pulivarthi</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Luo</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Souslian</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Suarez</surname><given-names>JI</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Predictors of nosocomial pneumonia in intracerebral hemorrhage patients: a multi-center observational study</article-title><source>Neurocrit Care</source><year>2015</year><volume>22</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>234</fpage><lpage>242</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1007/s12028-014-0065-x</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 25231530?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25231530</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR53" publication-type="journal">Divani AA, Hevesi M, Pulivarthi S, Luo X, Souslian F, Suarez JI, et al. Predictors of nosocomial pneumonia in intracerebral hemorrhage patients: a multi-center observational study. Neurocrit Care. 2015;22(2):234&#x02013;42.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25231530</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR54"><label>54.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR54" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bader</surname><given-names>ER</given-names></name><name><surname>Pana</surname><given-names>TA</given-names></name><name><surname>Barlas</surname><given-names>RS</given-names></name><name><surname>Metcalf</surname><given-names>AK</given-names></name><name><surname>Potter</surname><given-names>JF</given-names></name><name><surname>Myint</surname><given-names>PK</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Elevated inflammatory biomarkers and poor outcomes in intracerebral hemorrhage</article-title><source>J Neurol</source><year>2022</year><volume>269</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>6330</fpage><lpage>6341</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1007/s00415-022-11284-8</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 35869372?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35869372</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR54" publication-type="journal">Bader ER, Pana TA, Barlas RS, Metcalf AK, Potter JF, Myint PK. Elevated inflammatory biomarkers and poor outcomes in intracerebral hemorrhage. J Neurol. 2022;269(12):6330&#x02013;41.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35869372</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR55"><label>55.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR55" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>T&#x000f8;rnes</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>McLernon</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Bachmann</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Musgrave</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Warburton</surname><given-names>EA</given-names></name><name><surname>Potter</surname><given-names>JF</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Does service heterogeneity have an impact on acute hospital length of stay in stroke? A UK-based multicentre prospective cohort study</article-title><source>BMJ Open</source><year>2019</year><volume>9</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>e024506</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1136/bmjopen-2018-024506</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 30948571?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30948571</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR55" publication-type="journal">T&#x000f8;rnes M, McLernon D, Bachmann M, Musgrave S, Warburton EA, Potter JF, et al. Does service heterogeneity have an impact on acute hospital length of stay in stroke? A UK-based multicentre prospective cohort study. BMJ Open. 2019;9(4):e024506.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30948571</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR56"><label>56.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR56" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Appelros</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Prediction of length of stay for stroke patients</article-title><source>Acta Neurol Scand</source><year>2007</year><volume>116</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>15</fpage><lpage>19</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1111/j.1600-0404.2006.00756.x</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 17587250?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17587250</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR56" publication-type="journal">Appelros P. Prediction of length of stay for stroke patients. Acta Neurol Scand. 2007;116(1):15&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17587250</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR57"><label>57.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Opara OA, Narayanan R, Issa T, Tarawneh OH, Lee Y, Patrizio HA, et al. Socioeconomic Status Impacts Length of Stay and Non-Home Discharge Disposition after Posterior Cervical Decompression and Fusion. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2025;50(2):E22&#x02013;8.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR58"><label>58.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR58" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lubarsky</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Van Driest</surname><given-names>SL</given-names></name><name><surname>Crum</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Fountain</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Kannankeril</surname><given-names>PJ</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Association Between Neighborhood Socioeconomic Factors and Length of Stay After Surgery for Congenital Heart Disease</article-title><source>Pediatr Crit Care Med</source><year>2024</year><volume>25</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>547</fpage><lpage>553</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1097/PCC.0000000000003455</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 38299943?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38299943</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR58" publication-type="journal">Lubarsky D, Van Driest SL, Crum K, Fountain D, Kannankeril PJ. Association Between Neighborhood Socioeconomic Factors and Length of Stay After Surgery for Congenital Heart Disease. Pediatr Crit Care Med. 2024;25(6):547&#x02013;53.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38299943</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR59"><label>59.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR59" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Yue</surname><given-names>JK</given-names></name><name><surname>Krishnan</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Chyall</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Vega</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Hamidi</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Etemad</surname><given-names>LL</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Socioeconomic and clinical factors associated with prolonged hospital length of stay after traumatic brain injury</article-title><source>Injury</source><year>2023</year><volume>54</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>110815</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.injury.2023.05.046</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 37268533?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37268533</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR59" publication-type="journal">Yue JK, Krishnan N, Chyall L, Vega P, Hamidi S, Etemad LL, et al. Socioeconomic and clinical factors associated with prolonged hospital length of stay after traumatic brain injury. Injury. 2023;54(9):110815.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37268533</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR60"><label>60.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR60" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Hollowell</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Grocott</surname><given-names>MPW</given-names></name><name><surname>Hardy</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Haddad</surname><given-names>FS</given-names></name><name><surname>Mythen</surname><given-names>MG</given-names></name><name><surname>Raine</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Major elective joint replacement surgery: socioeconomic variations in surgical risk, postoperative morbidity and length of stay</article-title><source>J Eval Clin Pract</source><year>2010</year><volume>16</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>529</fpage><lpage>538</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1111/j.1365-2753.2009.01154.x</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 20210822?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20210822</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR60" publication-type="journal">Hollowell J, Grocott MPW, Hardy R, Haddad FS, Mythen MG, Raine R. Major elective joint replacement surgery: socioeconomic variations in surgical risk, postoperative morbidity and length of stay. J Eval Clin Pract. 2010;16(3):529&#x02013;38.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20210822</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR61"><label>61.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR61" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ma</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Fu</surname><given-names>HM</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>XM</given-names></name><name><surname>Wu</surname><given-names>BH</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>SX</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Evaluation of admission characteristics, hospital length of stay and costs for cerebral infarction in a medium-sized city in China</article-title><source>Eur J Neurol</source><year>2010</year><volume>17</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>1270</fpage><lpage>1276</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1111/j.1468-1331.2010.03007.x</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 20402751?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20402751</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR61" publication-type="journal">Ma Y, Liu Y, Fu HM, Wang XM, Wu BH, Wang SX, et al. Evaluation of admission characteristics, hospital length of stay and costs for cerebral infarction in a medium-sized city in China. Eur J Neurol. 2010;17(10):1270&#x02013;6.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">20402751</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR62"><label>62.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR62" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Srivastava</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Vemulapalli</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Okoh</surname><given-names>AK</given-names></name><name><surname>Kassotis</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Disparity in hospital admissions and length of stay based on income status for emergency department hypertensive crisis visits</article-title><source>J Hypertens</source><year>2022</year><volume>40</volume><issue>8</issue><fpage>1607</fpage><lpage>1613</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1097/HJH.0000000000003193</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 35788558?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35788558</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR62" publication-type="journal">Srivastava S, Vemulapalli B, Okoh AK, Kassotis J. Disparity in hospital admissions and length of stay based on income status for emergency department hypertensive crisis visits. J Hypertens. 2022;40(8):1607&#x02013;13.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35788558</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR63"><label>63.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR63" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Patlolla</surname><given-names>SH</given-names></name><name><surname>Kanwar</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Belford</surname><given-names>PM</given-names></name><name><surname>Applegate</surname><given-names>RJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhao</surname><given-names>DX</given-names></name><name><surname>Singh</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Influence of Household Income on Management and Outcomes of Acute Myocardial Infarction Complicated by Cardiogenic Shock</article-title><source>Am J Cardiol</source><year>2022</year><volume>177</volume><fpage>7</fpage><lpage>13</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/j.amjcard.2022.04.044</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 35701236?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35701236</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR63" publication-type="journal">Patlolla SH, Kanwar A, Belford PM, Applegate RJ, Zhao DX, Singh M, et al. Influence of Household Income on Management and Outcomes of Acute Myocardial Infarction Complicated by Cardiogenic Shock. Am J Cardiol. 2022;177:7&#x02013;13.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35701236</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR64"><label>64.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR64" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Loggini</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Mansour</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>El Ammar</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Lazaridis</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Kramer</surname><given-names>CL</given-names></name><name><surname>Bulwa</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Early Determinants of Neurocritical Care Unit Length of Stay in Patients with Spontaneous Intracerebral Hemorrhage</article-title><source>Neurocrit Care</source><year>2021</year><volume>34</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>485</fpage><lpage>491</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1007/s12028-020-01046-7</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 32651738?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32651738</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR64" publication-type="journal">Loggini A, Mansour A, El Ammar F, Lazaridis C, Kramer CL, Bulwa Z, et al. Early Determinants of Neurocritical Care Unit Length of Stay in Patients with Spontaneous Intracerebral Hemorrhage. Neurocrit Care. 2021;34(2):485&#x02013;91.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32651738</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR65"><label>65.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR65" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Sun</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Yi</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Xie</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Luo</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Clinical features of Chinese patients in different age groups with spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage based on multicenter inpatient information</article-title><source>Neurol Res</source><year>2020</year><volume>42</volume><issue>8</issue><fpage>657</fpage><lpage>664</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1080/01616412.2020.1782082</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 32552613?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32552613</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR65" publication-type="journal">Wang P, Sun Y, Yi D, Xie Y, Luo Y. Clinical features of Chinese patients in different age groups with spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage based on multicenter inpatient information. Neurol Res. 2020;42(8):657&#x02013;64.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32552613</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR66"><label>66.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR66" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Yin</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Man</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Jiang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhao</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhao</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Inpatient Cost of Stroke in Beijing: A Descriptive Analysis</article-title><source>Neuroepidemiology</source><year>2018</year><volume>51</volume><issue>3&#x02013;4</issue><fpage>115</fpage><lpage>122</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1159/000491091</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 30089305?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30089305</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR66" publication-type="journal">Yin X, Huang L, Man X, Jiang Y, Zhao X, Zhao L, et al. Inpatient Cost of Stroke in Beijing: A Descriptive Analysis. Neuroepidemiology. 2018;51(3&#x02013;4):115&#x02013;22.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30089305</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR67"><label>67.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR67" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>NR</given-names></name><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>JH</given-names></name><name><surname>Ahn</surname><given-names>JH</given-names></name><name><surname>Oh</surname><given-names>JK</given-names></name><name><surname>Chang</surname><given-names>IB</given-names></name><name><surname>Song</surname><given-names>JH</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Is nontraumatic intracerebral hemorrhage different between young and elderly patients?</article-title><source>Neurosurg Rev</source><year>2020</year><volume>43</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>781</fpage><lpage>791</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1007/s10143-019-01120-5</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 31161443?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31161443</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR67" publication-type="journal">Yang NR, Kim JH, Ahn JH, Oh JK, Chang IB, Song JH. Is nontraumatic intracerebral hemorrhage different between young and elderly patients? Neurosurg Rev. 2020;43(2):781&#x02013;91.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31161443</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR68"><label>68.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR68" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Tong</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>George</surname><given-names>MG</given-names></name><name><surname>Gillespie</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Merritt</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Trends in hospitalizations and cost associated with stroke by age, United States 2003&#x02013;2012</article-title><source>Int J Stroke</source><year>2016</year><volume>11</volume><issue>8</issue><fpage>874</fpage><lpage>881</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1177/1747493016654490</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 27312679?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27312679</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR68" publication-type="journal">Tong X, George MG, Gillespie C, Merritt R. Trends in hospitalizations and cost associated with stroke by age, United States 2003&#x02013;2012. Int J Stroke. 2016;11(8):874&#x02013;81.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27312679</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR69"><label>69.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR69" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Davis</surname><given-names>NW</given-names></name><name><surname>Sheehan</surname><given-names>TO</given-names></name><name><surname>Guo</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Kelly</surname><given-names>DL</given-names></name><name><surname>Horgas</surname><given-names>AL</given-names></name><name><surname>Yoon</surname><given-names>SL</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Factors Associated With Emergency Department Length of Stay and In-hospital Mortality in Intracerebral Hemorrhage Patients</article-title><source>J Neurosci Nurs</source><year>2021</year><volume>53</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>92</fpage><lpage>98</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1097/JNN.0000000000000572</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 33538458?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33538458</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR69" publication-type="journal">Davis NW, Sheehan TO, Guo Y, Kelly DL, Horgas AL, Yoon SL. Factors Associated With Emergency Department Length of Stay and In-hospital Mortality in Intracerebral Hemorrhage Patients. J Neurosci Nurs. 2021;53(2):92&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33538458</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR70"><label>70.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR70" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Davis</surname><given-names>NW</given-names></name><name><surname>Sheehan</surname><given-names>TO</given-names></name><name><surname>Peach</surname><given-names>BC</given-names></name><name><surname>Ansell</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Cimiotti</surname><given-names>JP</given-names></name><name><surname>Guo</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Emergency Department Length of Stay and Other Factors Contributing to Intracerebral Hemorrhage Patient Outcomes: An Executive Summary</article-title><source>J Neurosci Nurs</source><year>2020</year><volume>52</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>264</fpage><lpage>266</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1097/JNN.0000000000000537</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 33009169?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33009169</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR70" publication-type="journal">Davis NW, Sheehan TO, Peach BC, Ansell M, Cimiotti JP, Guo Y, et al. Emergency Department Length of Stay and Other Factors Contributing to Intracerebral Hemorrhage Patient Outcomes: An Executive Summary. J Neurosci Nurs. 2020;52(6):264&#x02013;6.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33009169</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR71"><label>71.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR71" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Busingye</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Kilkenny</surname><given-names>MF</given-names></name><name><surname>Purvis</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Middleton</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Campbell</surname><given-names>BCV</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Is length of time in a stroke unit associated with better outcomes for patients with stroke in Australia? An observational study</article-title><source>BMJ Open</source><year>2018</year><volume>8</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>e022536</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1136/bmjopen-2018-022536</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 30420348?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30420348</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR71" publication-type="journal">Busingye D, Kilkenny MF, Purvis T, Kim J, Middleton S, Campbell BCV, et al. Is length of time in a stroke unit associated with better outcomes for patients with stroke in Australia? An observational study. BMJ Open. 2018;8(11):e022536.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30420348</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR72"><label>72.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR72" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Ma</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Hu</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Song</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Ouyang</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Billot</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The third Intensive Care Bundle with Blood Pressure Reduction in Acute Cerebral Haemorrhage Trial (INTERACT3): an international, stepped wedge cluster randomised controlled trial</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2023</year><volume>402</volume><issue>10395</issue><fpage>27</fpage><lpage>40</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1016/S0140-6736(23)00806-1</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 37245517?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37245517</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR72" publication-type="journal">Ma L, Hu X, Song L, Chen X, Ouyang M, Billot L, et al. The third Intensive Care Bundle with Blood Pressure Reduction in Acute Cerebral Haemorrhage Trial (INTERACT3): an international, stepped wedge cluster randomised controlled trial. Lancet. 2023;402(10395):27&#x02013;40.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37245517</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR73"><label>73.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR73" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Padwale</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Chivate</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Kirnake</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Patil</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Kumar</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Pantbalekundri</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Comparative Prognostic Value of the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) and the Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) in Supratentorial and Infratentorial Stroke Patients in Western India</article-title><source>Cureus</source><year>2024</year><volume>16</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>e65778</fpage><?supplied-pmid 39211638?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39211638</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR73" publication-type="journal">Padwale V, Chivate C, Kirnake V, Patil H, Kumar S, Pantbalekundri N. Comparative Prognostic Value of the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) and the Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) in Supratentorial and Infratentorial Stroke Patients in Western India. Cureus. 2024;16(7):e65778.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39211638</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR74"><label>74.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR74" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Andraos</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Siddiqi</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Brazdzionis</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Siddiqi</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Limitations of the Glasgow Coma Scale: Challenges and Considerations</article-title><source>Cureus</source><year>2025</year><volume>17</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>e78900</fpage><?supplied-pmid 40091938?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">40091938</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR74" publication-type="journal">Andraos C, Siddiqi A, Brazdzionis J, Siddiqi J. Limitations of the Glasgow Coma Scale: Challenges and Considerations. Cureus. 2025;17(2): e78900.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">40091938</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR75"><label>75.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR75" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lewis</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Samperi</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Boyd-Skinner</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Telephone follow-up calls for older patients after hospital discharge</article-title><source>Age Ageing</source><year>2017</year><volume>46</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>544</fpage><lpage>546</lpage><?supplied-pmid 28104599?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28104599</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR75" publication-type="journal">Lewis E, Samperi S, Boyd-Skinner C. Telephone follow-up calls for older patients after hospital discharge. Age Ageing. 2017;46(4):544&#x02013;6.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28104599</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR76"><label>76.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR76" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>DeYoreo</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Price</surname><given-names>RA</given-names></name><name><surname>Bradley</surname><given-names>MA</given-names></name><name><surname>Schlang</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Montemayor</surname><given-names>CK</given-names></name><name><surname>Tolpadi</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Adding telephone follow-up can improve representativeness of surveys of seriously ill people</article-title><source>J Am Geriatr Soc</source><year>2022</year><volume>70</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>1870</fpage><lpage>1873</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1111/jgs.17711</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 35224725?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35224725</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR76" publication-type="journal">DeYoreo M, Price RA, Bradley MA, Schlang D, Montemayor CK, Tolpadi A, et al. Adding telephone follow-up can improve representativeness of surveys of seriously ill people. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2022;70(6):1870&#x02013;3.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35224725</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR77"><label>77.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR77" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Greenberg</surname><given-names>SM</given-names></name><name><surname>Ziai</surname><given-names>WC</given-names></name><name><surname>Cordonnier</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Dowlatshahi</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Francis</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Goldstein</surname><given-names>JN</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>2022 Guideline for the Management of Patients With Spontaneous Intracerebral Hemorrhage: A Guideline From the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association</article-title><source>Stroke</source><year>2022</year><volume>53</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>e282</fpage><lpage>361</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1161/STR.0000000000000407</pub-id><?supplied-pmid 35579034?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35579034</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR77" publication-type="journal">Greenberg SM, Ziai WC, Cordonnier C, Dowlatshahi D, Francis B, Goldstein JN, et al. 2022 Guideline for the Management of Patients With Spontaneous Intracerebral Hemorrhage: A Guideline From the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association. Stroke. 2022;53(7):e282-361.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35579034</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref></ref-list></back></article>