# Menopausal status, transition, and age at menopause with accelerated biological aging across multiple organ systems: findings from two cohort studies.

<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//NLM//DTD JATS (Z39.96) Journal Archiving and Interchange DTD with MathML3 v1.3 20210610//EN" "JATS-archivearticle1-3-mathml3.dtd"> 
<article xmlns:ali="http://www.niso.org/schemas/ali/1.0/" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" article-type="research-article" dtd-version="1.3"><?properties open_access?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierValue -//Springer-Verlag//DTD A++ V2.4//EN?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierType public?><?SourceDTD.DTDName A++V2.4.dtd?><?SourceDTD.Version 2.4?><?ConverterInfo.XSLTName springer2nlmx2.xsl?><?ConverterInfo.Version 1?><processing-meta base-tagset="archiving" mathml-version="3.0" table-model="xhtml" tagset-family="jats"><restricted-by>pmc</restricted-by></processing-meta><front><journal-meta><journal-id journal-id-type="nlm-ta">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-id journal-id-type="iso-abbrev">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-title-group><journal-title>BMC Medicine</journal-title></journal-title-group><issn pub-type="epub">1741-7015</issn><publisher><publisher-name>BioMed Central</publisher-name><publisher-loc>London</publisher-loc></publisher></journal-meta>
<article-meta><article-id pub-id-type="pmcid">12330081</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="pmid">40770753</article-id>
<article-id pub-id-type="publisher-id">4223</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12916-025-04223-7</article-id><article-categories><subj-group subj-group-type="heading"><subject>Research</subject></subj-group></article-categories><title-group><article-title>Menopausal status, transition, and age at menopause with accelerated biological aging across multiple organ systems: findings from two cohort studies</article-title></title-group><contrib-group><contrib contrib-type="author" equal-contrib="yes"><name><surname>Xiang</surname><given-names>Yi</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" equal-contrib="yes"><name><surname>Meng</surname><given-names>Qiong</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>Zitong</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Ning</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Yuan</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Ding</surname><given-names>Xianbin</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Yu</surname><given-names>Jianhong</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff4">4</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Baimakangzhuo</surname></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff5">5</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>Leilei</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff6">6</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Xiao</surname><given-names>Xiong</given-names></name><address><email>xiaoxiong.scu@scu.edu.cn</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Zhao</surname><given-names>Xing</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><aff id="Aff1"><label>1</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/011ashp19</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.13291.38</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0001 0807 1581</institution-id><institution>School of Public Health and West China Fourth Hospital, </institution><institution>Sichuan University, </institution></institution-wrap>Chengdu, China </aff><aff id="Aff2"><label>2</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/038c3w259</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.285847.4</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0000 9588 0960</institution-id><institution>School of Public Health, </institution><institution>Kunming Medical University, </institution></institution-wrap>Kunming, China </aff><aff id="Aff3"><label>3</label>Chongqing Municipal Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Chongqing, China </aff><aff id="Aff4"><label>4</label>Pidu District Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Chengdu, China </aff><aff id="Aff5"><label>5</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/05petvd47</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.440680.e</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 1808 3254</institution-id><institution>School of Medicine, </institution><institution>Tibet University, </institution></institution-wrap>Lhasa, Tibet, China </aff><aff id="Aff6"><label>6</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/035y7a716</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.413458.f</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0000 9330 9891</institution-id><institution>School of Public Health, Key Laboratory of Environmental Pollution Monitoring and Disease Control, Ministry of Education, </institution><institution>Guizhou Medical University, </institution></institution-wrap>Guiyang, China </aff></contrib-group><pub-date pub-type="epub"><day>6</day><month>8</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="pmc-release"><day>6</day><month>8</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="collection"><year>2025</year></pub-date><volume>23</volume><elocation-id>461</elocation-id><history><date date-type="received"><day>21</day><month>1</month><year>2025</year></date><date date-type="accepted"><day>16</day><month>6</month><year>2025</year></date></history><permissions><copyright-statement>&#x000a9; The Author(s) 2025</copyright-statement><copyright-year>2025</copyright-year><license><ali:license_ref specific-use="textmining" content-type="ccbyncndlicense">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ali:license_ref><license-p><bold>Open Access</bold> This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed material. You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article&#x02019;s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/">http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/</ext-link>.</license-p></license></permissions><abstract id="Abs1"><sec><title>Background</title><p id="Par9">Biological aging is a heterogeneous process that varies across organs and systems. The dynamic hormonal changes during the menopausal transition may have profound and organ-specific impacts on biological aging. However, the relationship between the menopausal transition and both comprehensive and organ-specific biological aging remains poorly understood. This study aimed to investigate the associations between menopausal factors and both comprehensive and organ-specific biological aging, as well as the modifying role of reproductive history.</p></sec><sec><title>Methods</title><p id="Par10">This study included 37,244 women from the China Multi-Ethnic Cohort (CMEC) and 140,479 from the UK Biobank (UKB). Menopausal factors included menopausal status, menopausal transition, and age at menopause. Comprehensive and organ-specific biological ages (BAs) were calculated using the Klemera-Doubal method and clinical biomarkers and have been shown to predict age-related health outcomes. Multiple linear regression and change-to-change models were applied, with stratified analyses based on reproductive history.</p></sec><sec><title>Results</title><p id="Par11">Compared with pre-menopausal women, those who were peri- or post-menopausal or had undergone hysterectomy or oophorectomy exhibited greater acceleration in comprehensive, liver, metabolic, and kidney BA. In longitudinal change-to-change models, women undergoing menopausal transition showed greater increases in comprehensive BA (CMEC: <italic>&#x003b2;</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.33, 95% CI&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.89, 1.76; UKB: <italic>&#x003b2;</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;2.60, 95% CI&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.91, 3.30), as well as liver, metabolic, and kidney BAs compared to those remaining pre-menopausal. Earlier age at menopause was associated with accelerated comprehensive BA in UKB (&#x0003c;&#x02009;40&#x000a0;years: <italic>&#x003b2;</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.69, 95% CI&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.39, 0.98; 40&#x02013;44&#x000a0;years: <italic>&#x003b2;</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.24, 95% CI&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.09, 0.40). Across organ-specific BAs, liver BA showed the strongest associations with menopausal factors. Reproductive history like age at live birth and number of live births emerged as potential modifiers of these associations.</p></sec><sec><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par12">Menopause, particularly the menopausal transition, was associated with accelerated comprehensive and organ-specific biological aging, with liver aging being most affected. These findings underscore the menopausal transition as a critical window for interventions to enhance women&#x02019;s health and longevity.</p></sec><sec><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12916-025-04223-7.</p></sec></abstract><kwd-group xml:lang="en"><title>Keywords</title><kwd>Menopausal transition</kwd><kwd>Age at menopause</kwd><kwd>Biological aging</kwd><kwd>Organ-specific aging</kwd><kwd>Change-to-change analysis</kwd></kwd-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="FundRef">https://doi.org/10.13039/501100001809</institution-id><institution>National Natural Science Foundation of China</institution></institution-wrap></funding-source><award-id>82273740</award-id></award-group></funding-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="FundRef">https://doi.org/10.13039/501100018542</institution-id><institution>Natural Science Foundation of Sichuan Province</institution></institution-wrap></funding-source><award-id>2024NSFSC0552</award-id></award-group></funding-group><custom-meta-group><custom-meta><meta-name>issue-copyright-statement</meta-name><meta-value>&#x000a9; BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2025</meta-value></custom-meta></custom-meta-group></article-meta></front><body><sec id="Sec1"><title>Background</title><p id="Par40">Menopause is a natural biological transition that marks the end of reproductive capacity in women, characterized by the permanent cessation of the menstruation and the decline in ovarian function [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>]. Beyond its reproductive implications, menopause has been associated with health declines across multiple organ systems, including increased risks for cardiovascular [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>], cognitive [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>], and musculoskeletal issues [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>]. Epidemiological studies have suggested that early menopause was associated with elevated risks of age-related morbidity and mortality [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>]. These findings have led to a hypothesis that menopause may accelerate the biological aging process [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>], potentially reshaping the trajectory of women&#x02019;s health throughout their extended post-menopause years.
</p><p id="Par41">Biological aging is a complex process that involves changes at multiple biological levels, from the molecular and cellular to the systemic [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>]. While chronological age (CA) increases uniformly, biological aging can vary substantially between individuals and across life stages [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>]. For women, the potential effects of menopause on biological aging suggested variations in biological aging rate at different reproductive stages. Several cross-sectional studies have explored the associations between age at menopause and biological aging markers such as epigenetic age [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>], telomere length [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>], frailty [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>], and composite biomarkers [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>]. While these studies offered valuable insights, they capture only a limited aspect of the broader relationship between reproductive and biological aging. Menopause is not merely an endpoint but a dynamic, multi-year process, typically lasting 2&#x02013;8 years [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>], marked by dramatic hormonal changes that may trigger a cascade of biological effects [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>]. Studying the menopausal transition period is crucial for understanding the mechanism through which menopause contributes to accelerated biological aging, as it captures dynamic alterations during this critical phase, providing insights that a static measure like age at menopause alone cannot reveal.</p><p id="Par42">Emerging evidence indicated that biological aging exhibits distinct rates and patterns across various organ systems [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>]. Menopause and its associated hormonal changes influence not only reproductive functions but also a wide range of physiological systems, potentially accelerating aging in certain organs. Examining the effects of menopause on organ-specific biological aging may help identify systems that are particularly vulnerable to menopausal changes. However, studies linking menopause to organ-specific biological aging remain limited. Additionally, reproductive history factors beyond menopause, such as early menarche, have been associated with long-term health outcomes and the aging process [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR21">21</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>]. Despite these findings, whether the effects of menopause on biological aging vary by reproductive history remains unclear.</p><p id="Par43">In this study, we aimed to investigate how biological aging differs across reproductive stages, changes during menopausal transition, and is influenced by the timing of menopause. Thus, we focused on three key menopausal factors: menopausal status, menopausal transition, and the age at menopause. Given the potential heterogeneity in biological aging, we also investigated how menopause influences biological aging across various organ systems and whether reproductive history modifies these relationships. Using data from the China Multi-Ethnic Cohort (CMEC) Study [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>] and the UK Biobank (UKB) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>], we employed the widely validated Klemera-Doubal method (KDM) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR26">26</xref>] to calculate comprehensive and organ-specific biological ages (BAs). These BA measures serve as robust predictors of aging-related morbidity and mortality [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR27">27</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR29">29</xref>], thereby facilitating a systematic examination of menopause in relation to biological aging.</p></sec><sec id="Sec2"><title>Methods</title><sec id="Sec3"><title>Study population</title><p id="Par44">The CMEC is an ongoing prospective cohort study initiated in May 2018 across community populations in five provinces of Southwest China [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>]. A total of 99,556 participants (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;59,762 females) aged 30&#x02013;79 years were recruited, given full consideration of ethnic characteristics, socioeconomic status, population size, and disease patterns. The first follow-up survey, conducted from August 2020 to July 2021, included approximately 10% of participants from the baseline survey. Data collection involved face-to-face interviews using electronic questionnaires, medical examinations, and clinical laboratory tests. All participants provided written informed consent, and the study received ethical approval from the Sichuan University Medical Ethical Review Board as well as local ethics committees at participating sites.</p><p id="Par45">The UKB is a large-scale prospective study that recruited over 500,000 participants (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;273,316 females) aged 37&#x02013;73 from 22 assessment centers across the UK between 2006 and 2010 [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>]. The first follow-up survey, conducted from 2012 to 2013, included a subset of 20,343 participants based at the Cheadle assessment center. At both surveys, comprehensive data were collected through touchscreen questionnaires, physical measurements, and biological samples. All participants provided electronic informed consent, and the study was approved by the National Information Governance Board for Health and Social Care and the National Health Service North West Multi-Centre Research Ethics Committee.</p><p id="Par46">This study included female participants aged 40&#x02013;65, with available data on menopausal status and biological aging at baseline. Participants were excluded if they were pregnant, reported an extreme age at menopause (&#x0003c;&#x02009;30 or&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;65 years), or had been diagnosed with breast, cervical, or ovarian cancer. The final analytic sample comprised 37,244 participants from the CMEC and 140,479 participants from the UKB (cross-sectional sample). For analyses examining menopausal transition, which required both baseline and follow-up data (longitudinal sample), we further excluded participants without follow-up information on menopausal status and biological aging, as well as those who had undergone oophorectomy or hysterectomy, resulting in 3441 participants from the CMEC and 1826 participants from the UKB (Fig. <xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>).<fig id="Fig1"><label>Fig. 1</label><caption><p>Flowchart of the study design</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4223_Fig1_HTML" id="MO1"/></fig></p></sec><sec id="Sec4"><title>Assessment of menopausal factors and other reproductive history</title><sec id="Sec5"><title>Menopausal factors</title><p id="Par47">In CMEC, participants were asked about their current menstrual status with the options: regular menstruation, irregular menstruation, peri-menopausal, and post-menopausal (cessation of menstruation for&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;12 months). Participants reporting post-menopausal status were further asked to provide their age at menopause. Information on surgical history, including unilateral or bilateral oophorectomy and hysterectomy, was also collected. In UKB, participants were asked, &#x0201c;Have you had your menopause (periods stopped)?&#x0201d; with options: yes, no, not sure&#x02014;had a hysterectomy, not sure&#x02014;other reason, and prefer not to answer. Data on age at menopause and any history of bilateral oophorectomy or hysterectomy were also obtained.</p><p id="Par48">Using these data, menopausal status was classified into pre-menopause, peri-menopause (CMEC only), post-menopause, oophorectomy, and hysterectomy. In CMEC, pre-menopause was defined as regular or irregular menstruation; in UKB, it was defined as a &#x0201c;no&#x0201d; response to the menopause question. Participants with missing or uncertain menopausal status (e.g., &#x0201c;not sure&#x02014;other reason&#x0201d; or &#x0201c;prefer not to answer&#x0201d;) were excluded from this study. For those who had experienced natural menopause, age at menopause was classified as&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;40, 40&#x02013;44, 45&#x02013;49, 50&#x02013;54, and&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;55 years [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>]. For analyses examining changes in menopausal status from baseline to follow-up, the CMEC menopausal categories were aligned with those in the UKB by reclassifying status as pre-menopause (including pre-menopause and peri-menopause) and post-menopause. This allowed us to define three transition groups: pre-menopause to pre-menopause (pre-pre), pre-menopause to post-menopause (menopausal transition), and post-menopause to post-menopause (post-post). Additionally, a more detailed classification was conducted for the CMEC, reconsidering peri-menopause as a distinct category, resulting in six transition groups: pre-pre, pre-peri, peri-peri, peri-post, pre-post, and post-post.</p></sec><sec id="Sec6"><title>Other reproductive history</title><p id="Par49">Other reproductive history factors included age at menarche, age at first live birth, age at last live birth, number of live births, history of miscarriage (including stillbirths, spontaneous miscarriages, and terminations), ever taken oral contraceptive pill, and ever used hormone-replacement therapy (HRT, UKB only).</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec7"><title>Assessment of biological aging</title><p id="Par50">In this study, we constructed comprehensive and organ-specific BAs using clinical biomarkers and anthropometric data, based on the Klemera and Doubal method (KDM). KDM is a widely used method for constructing composite biomarker BA and has been demonstrated good performance in predicting age-related health outcomes in both Chinese and UK populations [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR27">27</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR29">29</xref>].</p><sec id="Sec8"><title>Biomarker selection</title><p id="Par51">First, candidate biomarkers were selected based on their role in the aging process, previous usage in related literature, and their missingness in the datasets. Next, we retained only biomarkers with a correlation coefficient of |<italic>r</italic>|&#x0003e;&#x02009;0.1 with CA. To minimize redundancy, we excluded biomarkers that potentially reflected similar aspects of aging based on current knowledge and observed inter-correlations among biomarkers.</p><p id="Par52">This process yielded 15 biomarkers for comprehensive BA in the CMEC, which included systolic blood pressure (SBP), waist-to-hip ratio (WHR), peak expiratory flow (PEF), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-c), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-c), glycated hemoglobin (HBA1C), triglyceride (TG), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT), albumin (ALB), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), creatinine, urea, mean corpuscular volume (MCV), and platelet count (PLT). In the UKB, 18 biomarkers were selected, including SBP, WHR, body fat percentage (BFP), forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1), MCV, ALP, AST, C-reactive protein, cystatin C, GGT, heel quantitative ultrasound index, HBA1C, insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), TG, urate, urea, ALB, and vitamin D.</p><p id="Par53">These indicators were then categorized into four systems based on the organ or system function they represent: cardiopulmonary, metabolic, liver, and kidney systems. Cardiopulmonary BA included SBP and PEF/FEV1; metabolic BA included LDL-c, HDL-c, HBA1C, TG, and WHR for CMEC (and WHR, BFP, HBA1C, and TG for UKB); liver BA included AST, GGT, ALP, ALB, and IGF-1 (UKB only); the kidney BA included creatinine, urea, and cystatin C (UKB only).</p></sec><sec id="Sec9"><title>Construction of comprehensive and organ-specific BA acceleration</title><p id="Par54">BA was constructed by extracting information from the relationships between each biomarker and the aging process. Briefly, CA was regressed on <italic>m</italic> selected biomarkers in a reference population, allowing for the calculation of estimated BA as follows:<disp-formula id="Equa"><alternatives><tex-math id="d33e588">\documentclass[12pt]{minimal}
				\usepackage{amsmath}
				\usepackage{wasysym} 
				\usepackage{amsfonts} 
				\usepackage{amssymb} 
				\usepackage{amsbsy}
				\usepackage{mathrsfs}
				\usepackage{upgreek}
				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt}
				\begin{document}$${BA}_{EC}=\frac{{\sum }_{j=1}^{m}({x}_{j}-{q}_{j})\frac{{k}_{j}}{{s}_{j}^{2}}+\frac{CA}{{s}_{BA}^{2}}}{{\sum }_{j=1}^{m}{\left(\frac{{k}_{j}}{{s}_{j}}\right)}^{2}+\frac{1}{{s}_{BA}^{2}}}$$\end{document}</tex-math><mml:math id="d33e593" display="block"><mml:mrow><mml:msub><mml:mrow><mml:mi mathvariant="italic">BA</mml:mi></mml:mrow><mml:mrow><mml:mi mathvariant="italic">EC</mml:mi></mml:mrow></mml:msub><mml:mo>=</mml:mo><mml:mfrac><mml:mrow><mml:msubsup><mml:mo>&#x02211;</mml:mo><mml:mrow><mml:mi>j</mml:mi><mml:mo>=</mml:mo><mml:mn>1</mml:mn></mml:mrow><mml:mi>m</mml:mi></mml:msubsup><mml:mrow><mml:mo stretchy="false">(</mml:mo><mml:msub><mml:mi>x</mml:mi><mml:mi>j</mml:mi></mml:msub><mml:mo>-</mml:mo><mml:msub><mml:mi>q</mml:mi><mml:mi>j</mml:mi></mml:msub><mml:mo stretchy="false">)</mml:mo></mml:mrow><mml:mfrac><mml:msub><mml:mi>k</mml:mi><mml:mi>j</mml:mi></mml:msub><mml:msubsup><mml:mi>s</mml:mi><mml:mrow><mml:mi>j</mml:mi></mml:mrow><mml:mn>2</mml:mn></mml:msubsup></mml:mfrac><mml:mo>+</mml:mo><mml:mfrac><mml:mrow><mml:mi mathvariant="italic">CA</mml:mi></mml:mrow><mml:msubsup><mml:mi>s</mml:mi><mml:mrow><mml:mi mathvariant="italic">BA</mml:mi></mml:mrow><mml:mn>2</mml:mn></mml:msubsup></mml:mfrac></mml:mrow><mml:mrow><mml:msubsup><mml:mo>&#x02211;</mml:mo><mml:mrow><mml:mi>j</mml:mi><mml:mo>=</mml:mo><mml:mn>1</mml:mn></mml:mrow><mml:mi>m</mml:mi></mml:msubsup><mml:msup><mml:mrow><mml:mfenced close=")" open="("><mml:mfrac><mml:msub><mml:mi>k</mml:mi><mml:mi>j</mml:mi></mml:msub><mml:msub><mml:mi>s</mml:mi><mml:mi>j</mml:mi></mml:msub></mml:mfrac></mml:mfenced></mml:mrow><mml:mn>2</mml:mn></mml:msup><mml:mo>+</mml:mo><mml:mfrac><mml:mn>1</mml:mn><mml:msubsup><mml:mi>s</mml:mi><mml:mrow><mml:mi mathvariant="italic">BA</mml:mi></mml:mrow><mml:mn>2</mml:mn></mml:msubsup></mml:mfrac></mml:mrow></mml:mfrac></mml:mrow></mml:math><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4223_Article_Equa.gif" position="anchor"/></alternatives></disp-formula></p><p id="Par55">Here, <inline-formula id="IEq1"><alternatives><tex-math id="d33e675">\documentclass[12pt]{minimal}
				\usepackage{amsmath}
				\usepackage{wasysym} 
				\usepackage{amsfonts} 
				\usepackage{amssymb} 
				\usepackage{amsbsy}
				\usepackage{mathrsfs}
				\usepackage{upgreek}
				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt}
				\begin{document}$${BA}_{EC}$$\end{document}</tex-math><mml:math id="d33e680"><mml:msub><mml:mrow><mml:mi mathvariant="italic">BA</mml:mi></mml:mrow><mml:mrow><mml:mi mathvariant="italic">EC</mml:mi></mml:mrow></mml:msub></mml:math><inline-graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4223_Article_IEq1.gif"/></alternatives></inline-formula> represents the estimated biological age. <inline-formula id="IEq2"><alternatives><tex-math id="d33e690">\documentclass[12pt]{minimal}
				\usepackage{amsmath}
				\usepackage{wasysym} 
				\usepackage{amsfonts} 
				\usepackage{amssymb} 
				\usepackage{amsbsy}
				\usepackage{mathrsfs}
				\usepackage{upgreek}
				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt}
				\begin{document}$${x}_{j}$$\end{document}</tex-math><mml:math id="d33e695"><mml:msub><mml:mi>x</mml:mi><mml:mi>j</mml:mi></mml:msub></mml:math><inline-graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4223_Article_IEq2.gif"/></alternatives></inline-formula> is the measured value of the <italic>j</italic>th biomarker, and <inline-formula id="IEq3"><alternatives><tex-math id="d33e704">\documentclass[12pt]{minimal}
				\usepackage{amsmath}
				\usepackage{wasysym} 
				\usepackage{amsfonts} 
				\usepackage{amssymb} 
				\usepackage{amsbsy}
				\usepackage{mathrsfs}
				\usepackage{upgreek}
				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt}
				\begin{document}$${k}_{j}$$\end{document}</tex-math><mml:math id="d33e709"><mml:msub><mml:mi>k</mml:mi><mml:mi>j</mml:mi></mml:msub></mml:math><inline-graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4223_Article_IEq3.gif"/></alternatives></inline-formula>, <inline-formula id="IEq4"><alternatives><tex-math id="d33e715">\documentclass[12pt]{minimal}
				\usepackage{amsmath}
				\usepackage{wasysym} 
				\usepackage{amsfonts} 
				\usepackage{amssymb} 
				\usepackage{amsbsy}
				\usepackage{mathrsfs}
				\usepackage{upgreek}
				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt}
				\begin{document}$${q}_{j}$$\end{document}</tex-math><mml:math id="d33e720"><mml:msub><mml:mi>q</mml:mi><mml:mi>j</mml:mi></mml:msub></mml:math><inline-graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4223_Article_IEq4.gif"/></alternatives></inline-formula>, and <inline-formula id="IEq5"><alternatives><tex-math id="d33e727">\documentclass[12pt]{minimal}
				\usepackage{amsmath}
				\usepackage{wasysym} 
				\usepackage{amsfonts} 
				\usepackage{amssymb} 
				\usepackage{amsbsy}
				\usepackage{mathrsfs}
				\usepackage{upgreek}
				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt}
				\begin{document}$${s}_{j}$$\end{document}</tex-math><mml:math id="d33e732"><mml:msub><mml:mi>s</mml:mi><mml:mi>j</mml:mi></mml:msub></mml:math><inline-graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4223_Article_IEq5.gif"/></alternatives></inline-formula> correspond to the slope, intercept, and root mean squared error from the <italic>j</italic>th biomarker&#x02019;s regression on CA, respectively. <inline-formula id="IEq6"><alternatives><tex-math id="d33e741">\documentclass[12pt]{minimal}
				\usepackage{amsmath}
				\usepackage{wasysym} 
				\usepackage{amsfonts} 
				\usepackage{amssymb} 
				\usepackage{amsbsy}
				\usepackage{mathrsfs}
				\usepackage{upgreek}
				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt}
				\begin{document}$${s}_{BA}^{2}$$\end{document}</tex-math><mml:math id="d33e746"><mml:msubsup><mml:mi>s</mml:mi><mml:mrow><mml:mi mathvariant="italic">BA</mml:mi></mml:mrow><mml:mn>2</mml:mn></mml:msubsup></mml:math><inline-graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4223_Article_IEq6.gif"/></alternatives></inline-formula> represents the estimated variance in CA explained by the selected biomarker set. Since BA alone cannot fully capture individual differences in biological aging, BA acceleration was derived by subtracting CA from BA. A positive value of BA acceleration indicates advanced biological aging, and vice versa. All analyses were performed using BA acceleration. More details on the construction and validation of BAs can be found in our previous study [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR29">29</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>]. In our study population, the median comprehensive BA at baseline was 51.83 (44.81, 58.69) years in CMEC and 55.77 (47.95, 62.10) years in UKB. Detailed distributions of organ-specific BAs and their component biomarkers are presented in Additional file 1: Table S1.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec10"><title>Assessment of covariates</title><p id="Par56">Covariate information was mainly obtained through questionnaires, including sociodemographic characteristics, lifestyle and behavior factors, self-reported diseases, and reproductive history. Referring to previous studies [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>], in the final models we adjusted for age, ethnicity, education level, household income (CMEC only), Townsend deprivation index (UKB only), marital status (CMEC only), employment status, dietary score, total energy intake (CMEC only), smoking status, alcohol consumption, tea consumption, physical activity, body mass index (BMI), insomnia, depressive symptoms, anxiety symptoms, self-reported chronic diseases (cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), age at menarche, number of live births, ever taken oral contraceptive pill, and ever used HRT (UKB only). Detailed description of covariates can be found in Additional file 1: Supplementary methods [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR31">31</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR32">32</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec11"><title>Statistical analysis</title><sec id="Sec12"><title>Baseline characteristics</title><p id="Par57">We described the baseline characteristics of study participants by menopausal status for the cross-sectional sample and by changes in menopausal status between baseline and follow-up for the longitudinal sample. Continuous variables were described as median (25th, 75th percentile), while categorical variables were presented as count (percentage). To assess the representativeness of the longitudinal sample, we compared baseline characteristics of women who completed the follow-up survey with those who did not in each cohort.</p></sec><sec id="Sec13"><title>Analysis of three menopausal factors with comprehensive and organ-specific BA acceleration</title><p id="Par58">To explore biological aging across distinct reproductive stages, we first examined the associations between menopausal status and BA acceleration using baseline data, analyzing both comprehensive and organ-specific BAs. We used multiple linear regression models, with pre-menopause as the reference group, and adjusted for baseline covariates mentioned above.</p><p id="Par59">Using follow-up data, we further examined the relationship between changes in menopausal status (pre-pre, menopausal transition, and post-post) and changes in both comprehensive and organ-specific BA acceleration. We applied a change-to-change analysis with linear regression models, using the pre-pre group as the reference. Change-to-change analysis could reduce unmeasured time-invariant confounding by using only within-individual information. Models were adjusted for baseline time-invariant covariates, including demographics, reproductive history, and self-reported chronic diseases, as well as baseline and concurrent changes of time-variant covariates such as age, lifestyle factors, and mental status. Details of change-to-change analysis and covariate adjustment can be found in Additional file 1: Supplementary methods [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR33">33</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR36">36</xref>].</p><p id="Par60">For women who had experienced natural menopause, we assessed the associations between age at menopause and BA acceleration. Age at menopause was analyzed as both a continuous and a categorical variable (&#x0003c;&#x02009;40, 40&#x02013;44, 45&#x02013;49, 50&#x02013;54, and&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;55 years, with the 45&#x02013;49 age group as the reference [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR4">4</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR37">37</xref>]). Multiple linear regression models were used, adjusting for the same baseline covariates.</p><p id="Par61">Several sensitivity analyses were also performed to ensure the robustness of our findings. First, we reanalyzed the data after excluding females with self-reported chronic diseases, which included cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Second, missing covariate data were handled using multiple imputation via chained equations, and the analyses were repeated. Third, analyses were repeated with further adjustment for medication use, including anti-hypertensive and anti-diabetic medications (available in both cohorts), and lipid-lowering medications (available in UKB only). Lastly, we calculated <italic>E</italic>-values to assess the potential influence of unmeasured confounding [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR38">38</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec14"><title>Subgroup analysis by reproductive history and socioeconomic factors</title><p id="Par62">To assess potential modifiers of the association between menopausal factors and comprehensive BA acceleration, we performed subgroup analyses primarily focused on reproductive history variables. These included age at menarche (&#x0003c;&#x02009;15 or&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;15 years), age at first live birth, age at last live birth, number of live births (0&#x02013;1 or&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;2), ever taken oral contraceptive pill (yes or no), and history of miscarriage (yes or no). Given the differences in childbearing age between the two cohorts, age at first live birth was grouped as&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;23 or&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;23 years in CMEC and&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;26 or&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;26 years in UKB, while age at last live birth was classified as&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;26 or&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;26 years in CMEC and&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;31 and&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;31 years in UKB. Additionally, subgroup analyses were conducted based on socioeconomic factors, including education and income level. Heterogeneity across groups was assessed using Cochran&#x02019;s <italic>Q</italic> test.</p><p id="Par63">All statistical analyses were conducted using R version 4.3.2. A two-sided <italic>P</italic>&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05 was considered statistically significant. The study was reported in accordance with the Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (STROBE) guidelines (Additional file 2).</p></sec></sec></sec><sec id="Sec15"><title>Results</title><sec id="Sec16"><title>Baseline characteristics of study population</title><p id="Par64">Table <xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref> summarizes the baseline characteristics of study participants from CMEC and UKB based on change in menopausal status. Among 3441 participants aged 40&#x02013;65 from CMEC, the median age was 50.61 (45.95, 55.77) years. During a median follow-up of 2.01 (1.81, 2.23) years, 684 (19.9%) women transitioned from pre-menopause to post-menopause. Among 1826 participants aged 40&#x02013;65 from UKB, the median age was 57.17 (50.77, 61.42) years. During a median follow-up of 4.50 (3.92, 5.00) years, 223 (12.2%) women transitioned from pre-menopause to post-menopause. In both cohorts, compared with pre-menopausal women, those undergoing the menopausal transition exhibited higher increases in comprehensive BA acceleration as well as in the BA acceleration of most organ systems between the baseline and follow-up (Additional file 1: Fig. S1). Descriptive results for cross-sectional sample are presented in Additional file 1: Tables S2 and S3. Additionally, women who completed the follow-up survey tended to have higher economic and educational levels (Additional file 1: Table S4).
<table-wrap id="Tab1"><label>Table 1</label><caption><p>Baseline characteristics of study populations according to change in menopausal status</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left" rowspan="2">Characteristic<sup>a</sup></th><th align="left" colspan="4">CMEC</th><th align="left" colspan="4">UKB</th></tr><tr><th align="left">Overall</th><th align="left">Pre-pre</th><th align="left">Menopausal transition</th><th align="left">Post-post</th><th align="left">Overall</th><th align="left">Pre-pre</th><th align="left">Menopausal transition</th><th align="left">Post-post</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left">No. of participants</td><td align="left">3441</td><td align="left">1107</td><td align="left">684</td><td align="left">1650</td><td align="left">1826</td><td align="left">292</td><td align="left">223</td><td align="left">1311</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">BA acceleration (years)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Comprehensive BA</td><td align="left">0.24 (&#x02212;3.48, 3.71)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;1.34 (&#x02212;5.02, 1.92)</td><td align="left">0.05 (&#x02212;3.83, 3.37)</td><td align="left">1.47 (&#x02212;2.04, 4.77)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;1.96 (&#x02212;5.39, 2.05)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;3.57 (&#x02212;7.22, 1.07)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;3.61 (&#x02212;7.35, 0.97)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;1.48 (&#x02212;4.71, 2.37)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Cardiopulmonary BA</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.09 (&#x02212;0.96, 0.82)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.06 (&#x02212;0.92, 0.83)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.16 (&#x02212;1.01, 0.81)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.08 (&#x02212;0.96, 0.84)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.17 (&#x02212;0.64, 0.34)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.19 (&#x02212;0.59, 0.31)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.09 (&#x02212;0.59, 0.48)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.17 (&#x02212;0.68, 0.33)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Liver BA</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.15 (&#x02212;7.43, 6.95)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;4.31 (&#x02212;11.30, 3.21)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.81 (&#x02212;7.92, 6.61)</td><td align="left">2.55 (&#x02212;4.13, 9.18)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.46 (&#x02212;5.26, 4.19)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;2.75 (&#x02212;9.27, 2.26)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;3.53 (&#x02212;8.15, 1.20)</td><td align="left">0.35 (&#x02212;4.06, 5.22)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Metabolic BA</td><td align="left">0.55 (&#x02212;3.57, 4.49)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.28 (&#x02212;4.50, 3.45)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.16 (&#x02212;3.98, 3.97)</td><td align="left">1.52 (&#x02212;2.56, 5.48)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;2.58 (&#x02212;8.04, 3.69)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;3.46 (&#x02212;8.61, 3.06)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;4.37 (&#x02212;10.54, 2.61)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;2.04 (&#x02212;7.33, 4.06)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Kidney BA</td><td align="left">0.30 (&#x02212;2.63, 3.00)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.17 (&#x02212;3.24, 2.39)</td><td align="left">0.35 (&#x02212;2.47, 2.95)</td><td align="left">0.59 (&#x02212;2.34, 3.37)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.73 (&#x02212;4.20, 2.61)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.96 (&#x02212;4.49, 1.96)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;2.21 (&#x02212;6.20, 1.25)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.39 (&#x02212;3.90, 2.93)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Age (years)</td><td align="left">50.61 (45.95, 55.77)</td><td align="left">44.48 (42.29, 46.73)</td><td align="left">49.40 (46.99, 51.23)</td><td align="left">55.86 (53.06, 60.89)</td><td align="left">57.17 (50.77, 61.42)</td><td align="left">44.50 (42.50, 46.83)</td><td align="left">50.17 (47.92, 52.50)</td><td align="left">59.75 (56.33, 62.33)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Ethnicity, majority<sup>b</sup></td><td align="left">1857 (54.0)</td><td align="left">633 (57.2)</td><td align="left">358 (52.3)</td><td align="left">866 (52.5)</td><td align="left">1781 (97.5)</td><td align="left">282 (96.6)</td><td align="left">214 (96.0)</td><td align="left">1285 (98.0)</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Education<sup>c</sup></td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Less than high school</td><td align="left">2887 (83.9)</td><td align="left">862 (77.9)</td><td align="left">594 (86.8)</td><td align="left">1431 (86.7)</td><td align="left">120 (6.6)</td><td align="left">4 (1.4)</td><td align="left">4 (1.8)</td><td align="left">112 (8.5)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;High school or equivalent</td><td align="left">331 (9.6)</td><td align="left">121 (10.9)</td><td align="left">47 (6.9)</td><td align="left">163 (9.9)</td><td align="left">901 (49.3)</td><td align="left">135 (46.2)</td><td align="left">102 (45.7)</td><td align="left">664 (50.6)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;College or above</td><td align="left">222 (6.5)</td><td align="left">124 (11.2)</td><td align="left">43 (6.3)</td><td align="left">55 (3.3)</td><td align="left">798 (43.7)</td><td align="left">153 (52.4)</td><td align="left">117 (52.5)</td><td align="left">528 (40.3)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Townsend deprivation index<sup>d</sup></td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02212;2.69 (&#x02212;3.99, &#x02212;0.74)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;2.36 (&#x02212;3.71, &#x02212;0.06)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;2.24 (&#x02212;3.66, 0.09)</td><td align="left">&#x02212;2.87 (&#x02212;4.04, &#x02212;0.95)</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Household income</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x0003c;&#x0ffe5;12,000</td><td align="left">560 (16.3)</td><td align="left">120 (10.8)</td><td align="left">124 (18.1)</td><td align="left">316 (19.2)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x0ffe5;12,000&#x02013;19,999</td><td align="left">681 (19.8)</td><td align="left">182 (16.4)</td><td align="left">151 (22.1)</td><td align="left">348 (21.1)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x0ffe5;20,000&#x02013;59,999</td><td align="left">1344 (39.1)</td><td align="left">471 (42.5)</td><td align="left">243 (35.5)</td><td align="left">630 (38.2)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x0ffe5;60,000&#x02013;99,999</td><td align="left">465 (13.5)</td><td align="left">175 (15.8)</td><td align="left">96 (14.0)</td><td align="left">194 (11.8)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x0ffe5;100,000&#x02013;199,999</td><td align="left">319 (9.3)</td><td align="left">124 (11.2)</td><td align="left">59 (8.6)</td><td align="left">136 (8.2)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02265;&#x0ffe5;200,000</td><td align="left">70 (2.0)</td><td align="left">34 (3.1)</td><td align="left">11 (1.6)</td><td align="left">25 (1.5)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Employment status</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Employed</td><td align="left">3017 (87.7)</td><td align="left">1049 (94.8)</td><td align="left">623 (91.1)</td><td align="left">1345 (81.5)</td><td align="left">1197 (65.6)</td><td align="left">289 (99.0)</td><td align="left">211 (94.6)</td><td align="left">697 (53.2)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Unemployed</td><td align="left">123 (3.6)</td><td align="left">46 (4.2)</td><td align="left">27 (3.9)</td><td align="left">50 (3.0)</td><td align="left">4 (0.2)</td><td align="left">0 (0.0)</td><td align="left">0 (0.0)</td><td align="left">4 (0.3)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Retired</td><td align="left">299 (8.7)</td><td align="left">10 (0.9)</td><td align="left">34 (5.0)</td><td align="left">255 (15.5)</td><td align="left">607 (33.2)</td><td align="left">1 (0.3)</td><td align="left">7 (3.1)</td><td align="left">599 (45.7)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Married</td><td align="left">3072 (89.3)</td><td align="left">1017 (91.9)</td><td align="left">624 (91.2)</td><td align="left">1431 (86.7)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Current smoking</td><td align="left">28 (0.8)</td><td align="left">17 (1.5)</td><td align="left">5 (0.7)</td><td align="left">6 (0.4)</td><td align="left">86 (4.7)</td><td align="left">19 (6.5)</td><td align="left">16 (7.2)</td><td align="left">51 (3.9)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Current drinking</td><td align="left">901 (26.2)</td><td align="left">326 (29.4)</td><td align="left">198 (28.9)</td><td align="left">377 (22.8)</td><td align="left">1718 (94.1)</td><td align="left">278 (95.2)</td><td align="left">216 (96.9)</td><td align="left">1224 (93.4)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Current tea drinking</td><td align="left">605 (17.6)</td><td align="left">205 (18.5)</td><td align="left">130 (19.0)</td><td align="left">270 (16.4)</td><td align="left">1540 (84.3)</td><td align="left">234 (80.1)</td><td align="left">185 (83.0)</td><td align="left">1121 (85.5)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Healthy diet<sup>e</sup></td><td align="left">1832 (53.2)</td><td align="left">640 (57.8)</td><td align="left">368 (53.8)</td><td align="left">824 (49.9)</td><td align="left">742 (40.6)</td><td align="left">103 (35.3)</td><td align="left">83 (37.2)</td><td align="left">556 (42.4)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Total energy intake (kcal/d)</td><td align="left">1680.63 (1330.43, 2092.78)</td><td align="left">1697.29 (1344.46, 2093.28)</td><td align="left">1663.14 (1299.51, 2144.17)</td><td align="left">1676.38 (1329.24, 2064.92)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Physical activity (MET-h/wk)</td><td align="left">170.33 (92.98, 274.08)</td><td align="left">189.65 (112.02, 286.81)</td><td align="left">191.78 (102.58, 286.07)</td><td align="left">148.90 (78.40, 257.80)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Physical activity (d/wk)<sup>f</sup></td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;0</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">172 (9.4)</td><td align="left">35 (12.0)</td><td align="left">22 (9.9)</td><td align="left">115 (8.8)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;1&#x02013;2</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">286 (15.7)</td><td align="left">38 (13.0)</td><td align="left">29 (13.0)</td><td align="left">219 (16.7)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;3&#x02013;4</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">360 (19.7)</td><td align="left">55 (18.8)</td><td align="left">38 (17.0)</td><td align="left">267 (20.4)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;&#x02265;5</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">966 (52.9)</td><td align="left">157 (53.8)</td><td align="left">128 (57.4)</td><td align="left">681 (51.9)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Insomnia symptom</td><td align="left">1579 (45.9)</td><td align="left">404 (36.5)</td><td align="left">290 (42.4)</td><td align="left">888 (53.6)</td><td align="left">527 (28.9)</td><td align="left">52 (17.8)</td><td align="left">50 (22.4)</td><td align="left">425 (32.4)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Depressive symptom</td><td align="left">188 (5.5)</td><td align="left">48 (4.3)</td><td align="left">39 (5.7)</td><td align="left">101 (6.1)</td><td align="left">61 (3.3)</td><td align="left">12 (4.1)</td><td align="left">7 (3.1)</td><td align="left">42 (3.2)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Anxiety symptom</td><td align="left">254 (7.4)</td><td align="left">65 (5.9)</td><td align="left">55 (8.0)</td><td align="left">134 (8.1)</td><td align="left">64 (3.5)</td><td align="left">7 (2.4)</td><td align="left">6 (2.7)</td><td align="left">51 (3.9)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">BMI (kg/m<sup>2</sup>)</td><td align="left">23.97 (21.84, 26.62)</td><td align="left">23.83 (21.92, 26.18)</td><td align="left">23.94 (21.76, 26.31)</td><td align="left">24.06 (21.83, 27.06)</td><td align="left">25.00 (22.78, 28.35)</td><td align="left">24.00 (22.12, 26.99)</td><td align="left">24.27 (22.27, 27.44)</td><td align="left">25.27 (23.03, 28.65)</td></tr><tr><td align="left" colspan="9">Self-reported diseases</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Cancer</td><td align="left">7 (0.2)</td><td align="left">1 (0.1)</td><td align="left">1 (0.1)</td><td align="left">5 (0.3)</td><td align="left">68 (3.7)</td><td align="left">4 (1.4)</td><td align="left">2 (0.9)</td><td align="left">62 (4.7)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;CVD</td><td align="left">596 (17.3)</td><td align="left">95 (8.6)</td><td align="left">92 (13.5)</td><td align="left">409 (24.8)</td><td align="left">332 (18.2)</td><td align="left">24 (8.2)</td><td align="left">24 (10.8)</td><td align="left">284 (21.7)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;Diabetes</td><td align="left">114 (3.3)</td><td align="left">19 (1.7)</td><td align="left">14 (2.0)</td><td align="left">81 (4.9)</td><td align="left">36 (2.0)</td><td align="left">6 (2.1)</td><td align="left">4 (1.8)</td><td align="left">26 (2.0)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02003;COPD</td><td align="left">179 (5.2)</td><td align="left">37 (3.3)</td><td align="left">30 (4.4)</td><td align="left">112 (6.8)</td><td align="left">9 (0.5)</td><td align="left">0 (0.0)</td><td align="left">0 (0.0)</td><td align="left">9 (0.7)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Age at menarche (years)</td><td align="left">15.00 (13.00, 16.00)</td><td align="left">14.00 (13.00, 15.00)</td><td align="left">14.00 (13.00, 16.00)</td><td align="left">15.00 (14.00, 17.00)</td><td align="left">13.00 (12.00, 14.00)</td><td align="left">13.00 (12.00, 14.00)</td><td align="left">13.00 (12.00, 14.00)</td><td align="left">13.00 (12.00, 14.00)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Age at first live birth (years)</td><td align="left">23.00 (21.00, 25.00)</td><td align="left">23.00 (21.00, 25.00)</td><td align="left">23.00 (21.00, 25.00)</td><td align="left">23.00 (21.00, 25.00)</td><td align="left">26.00 (23.00, 29.00)</td><td align="left">27.00 (24.00, 30.00)</td><td align="left">27.00 (24.00, 30.00)</td><td align="left">26.00 (23.00, 29.00)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Age at last live birth (years)</td><td align="left">26.00 (24.00, 29.00)</td><td align="left">27.00 (24.00, 30.00)</td><td align="left">26.00 (24.00, 29.00)</td><td align="left">26.00 (24.00, 29.00)</td><td align="left">31.00 (28.00, 34.00)</td><td align="left">32.00 (29.00, 35.00)</td><td align="left">32.00 (28.00, 35.00)</td><td align="left">31.00 (27.00, 34.00)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Number of live births</td><td align="left">2.00 (1.00, 2.00)</td><td align="left">2.00 (1.00, 2.00)</td><td align="left">2.00 (1.00, 2.00)</td><td align="left">2.00 (1.00, 2.00)</td><td align="left">2.00 (1.00, 2.00)</td><td align="left">2.00 (0.00, 2.00)</td><td align="left">2.00 (0.00, 2.00)</td><td align="left">2.00 (1.00, 2.00)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">History of miscarriage<sup>g</sup></td><td align="left">2052 (59.6)</td><td align="left">686 (62.0)</td><td align="left">431 (63.0)</td><td align="left">935 (56.7)</td><td align="left">533 (29.2)</td><td align="left">74 (25.3)</td><td align="left">72 (32.3)</td><td align="left">387 (29.5)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Ever taken oral contraceptive pill</td><td align="left">516 (15.0)</td><td align="left">205 (18.5)</td><td align="left">116 (17.0)</td><td align="left">195 (11.8)</td><td align="left">1542 (84.4)</td><td align="left">258 (88.4)</td><td align="left">197 (88.3)</td><td align="left">1087 (82.9)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Ever used hormone-replacement therapy</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">542 (29.7)</td><td align="left">3 (1.0)</td><td align="left">13 (5.8)</td><td align="left">526 (40.1)</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p><italic>Abbreviations</italic>
<italic>CMEC</italic> China Multi-Ethnic Cohort, <italic>UKB</italic> UK Biobank, <italic>BA</italic> biological age, <italic>METs-h/wk</italic> hours of metabolic equivalent tasks per week, <italic>BMI</italic> body mass index, <italic>CVD</italic> cardiovascular disease, <italic>COPD</italic> chronic obstructive pulmonary disease</p><p><sup>a</sup>Data are presented as median (25th, 75th percentile) for continuous variables and count (percentage) for categorical variables. The numbers of missing covariates in CMEC/UKB were as follows: ethnicity (0/5), education (1/7), Townsend deprivation index (2 in UKB), household income (2 in CMEC), employment status (2/18), marital status (1 in CMEC), alcohol consumption (1/2), tea consumption (2/2), healthy diet (10/0), total energy intake (10 in CMEC), physical activity (16/42), insomnia symptom (11/0), depressive symptom (11/98), anxiety symptom (11/46), BMI (8/0), cancer (0/4), CVD (0/2), age at menarche (1/37), age at first live birth (57/625), age at last live birth (57/625), number of live births (15/2), history of miscarriage (36/28), ever taken oral contraceptive pill (0/3), and ever used hormone-replacement therapy (3 in UKB)</p><p><sup>b</sup>Majority denoted Han Chinese in CMEC and White in UKB</p><p><sup>c</sup>In UKB, education level was defined according to education qualifications: college or above (college or university degree); high school or equivalent (A levels, AS levels, or equivalent; O levels, GCSEs, or equivalent; CSEs or equivalent; NVQ, HND, HNC, or equivalent; other professional qualifications); less than high school (none of the above)</p><p><sup>d</sup>Townsend deprivation index was an area level variable of socioeconomic status; a higher number of TDI denotes lower area level SES</p><p><sup>e</sup>Healthy diet denoted the top 1/2 of healthy diet scores in the two cohorts. In CMEC, a Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) score was used. In UKB, healthy diet score was calculated based on consumption of 7 dietary components (fruits, vegetables, fish, processed meats, unprocessed red meats, whole grains, and refined grains)</p><p><sup>f</sup>In UKB, due to the high rate of missing data for physical activity measured by metabolic equivalent tasks, we defined physical activity as the number of days per week participants engaged in moderate or vigorous activity for more than 10 min per day</p><p><sup>g</sup>History of miscarriage included stillbirths, spontaneous miscarriages, and terminations</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p></sec><sec id="Sec17"><title>Associations of three menopausal factors with comprehensive and organ-specific BA acceleration</title><sec id="Sec18"><title>Menopausal status and BA acceleration</title><p id="Par65">As shown in Table <xref rid="Tab2" ref-type="table">2</xref>, in both cohorts, post-menopausal women and those who had undergone hysterectomy or oophorectomy exhibited greater comprehensive BA acceleration compared to pre-menopausal women. The most pronounced associations with comprehensive BA were found in the post-menopausal group in CMEC (<italic>&#x003b2;</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;3.30, 95% CI&#x02009;=&#x02009;3.14, 3.45) and the oophorectomy group in UKB (<italic>&#x003b2;</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;3.14, 95% CI&#x02009;=&#x02009;3.00, 3.28). Additionally, in CMEC, peri-menopausal women also exhibited increased BA acceleration, with an estimate of 1.87 (1.69, 2.05).
<table-wrap id="Tab2"><label>Table 2</label><caption><p>Associations between menopausal status and BA acceleration</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left" rowspan="2">BA acceleration</th><th align="left" rowspan="2">Menopausal status</th><th align="left" colspan="2">CMEC</th><th align="left" colspan="2">UKB</th></tr><tr><th align="left"><italic>n</italic></th><th align="left"><italic>&#x003b2;</italic> (95% CI)</th><th align="left"><italic>n</italic></th><th align="left"><italic>&#x003b2;</italic> (95% CI)</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left" rowspan="5">Comprehensive BA</td><td align="left">Pre-menopause (ref)</td><td align="left">14,398</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left">37,285</td><td align="left">Ref</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Peri-menopause</td><td align="left">3408</td><td align="left">1.87 (1.69, 2.05)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Post-menopause</td><td align="left">17,108</td><td align="left">3.30 (3.14, 3.45)</td><td align="left">62,108</td><td align="left">2.76 (2.67, 2.86)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Hysterectomy</td><td align="left">967</td><td align="left">2.58 (2.26, 2.90)</td><td align="left">11,149</td><td align="left">2.73 (2.60, 2.85)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Oophorectomy</td><td align="left">795</td><td align="left">1.91 (1.57, 2.25)</td><td align="left">7841</td><td align="left">3.14 (3.00, 3.28)</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="5">Cardiopulmonary BA</td><td align="left">Pre-menopause (ref)</td><td align="left">14,398</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left">37,285</td><td align="left">Ref</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Peri-menopause</td><td align="left">3408</td><td align="left">0.04 (&#x02212;0.01, 0.09)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Post-menopause</td><td align="left">17,108</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.03 (&#x02212;0.08, 0.01)</td><td align="left">62,108</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.02 (&#x02212;0.04, &#x02212;0.01)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Hysterectomy</td><td align="left">967</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.05 (&#x02212;0.13, 0.03)</td><td align="left">11,149</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.04 (&#x02212;0.06, &#x02212;0.02)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Oophorectomy</td><td align="left">795</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.15 (&#x02212;0.24, &#x02212;0.06)</td><td align="left">7841</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.03 (&#x02212;0.05, &#x02212;0.01)</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="5">Liver BA</td><td align="left">Pre-menopause (ref)</td><td align="left">14,398</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left">37,285</td><td align="left">Ref</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Peri-menopause</td><td align="left">3408</td><td align="left">3.97 (3.57, 4.36)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Post-menopause</td><td align="left">17,108</td><td align="left">7.21 (6.87, 7.55)</td><td align="left">62,108</td><td align="left">4.97 (4.82, 5.12)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Hysterectomy</td><td align="left">967</td><td align="left">5.53 (4.83, 6.22)</td><td align="left">11,149</td><td align="left">4.29 (4.10, 4.49)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Oophorectomy</td><td align="left">795</td><td align="left">4.98 (4.23, 5.73)</td><td align="left">7841</td><td align="left">4.94 (4.71, 5.16)</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="5">Metabolic BA</td><td align="left">Pre-menopause (ref)</td><td align="left">14,398</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left">37,285</td><td align="left">Ref</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Peri-menopause</td><td align="left">3408</td><td align="left">1.17 (0.96, 1.39)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Post-menopause</td><td align="left">17,108</td><td align="left">2.24 (2.05, 2.43)</td><td align="left">62,108</td><td align="left">2.00 (1.86, 2.14)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Hysterectomy</td><td align="left">967</td><td align="left">1.91 (1.53, 2.29)</td><td align="left">11,149</td><td align="left">2.37 (2.18, 2.55)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Oophorectomy</td><td align="left">795</td><td align="left">1.35 (0.95, 1.76)</td><td align="left">7841</td><td align="left">2.58 (2.37, 2.79)</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="5">Kidney BA</td><td align="left">Pre-menopause (ref)</td><td align="left">14,398</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left">37,285</td><td align="left">Ref</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Peri-menopause</td><td align="left">3408</td><td align="left">0.73 (0.56, 0.89)</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td><td align="left">&#x02013;</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Post-menopause</td><td align="left">17,108</td><td align="left">1.35 (1.21, 1.49)</td><td align="left">62,108</td><td align="left">2.05 (1.94, 2.15)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Hysterectomy</td><td align="left">967</td><td align="left">0.91 (0.62, 1.20)</td><td align="left">11,149</td><td align="left">1.82 (1.68, 1.96)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">Oophorectomy</td><td align="left">795</td><td align="left">0.90 (0.59, 1.21)</td><td align="left">7841</td><td align="left">2.02 (1.86, 2.17)</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>Models were adjusted for age, ethnicity, education level, household income (CMEC only), Townsend deprivation index (UKB only), marital status (CMEC only), employment status, dietary score, total energy intake (CMEC only), smoking status, alcohol consumption, tea consumption, physical activity, body mass index, insomnia, depressive symptoms, anxiety symptoms, self-reported chronic diseases (cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), age at menarche, number of live births, ever taken oral contraceptive pill, and ever used hormone-replacement therapy (UKB only)</p><p><italic>Abbreviations</italic>
<italic>CMEC</italic> China Multi-Ethnic Cohort, <italic>UKB</italic> UK Biobank, <italic>BA</italic> biological age</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p><p id="Par66">For organ-specific BAs, both cohorts showed that menopausal status was associated with increased BA acceleration in the liver, metabolic, and kidney systems, with the strongest associations observed in liver BA. Specifically, the liver BA estimates for post-menopausal women were 7.21 (6.87, 7.55) in CMEC and 4.97 (4.82, 5.12) in UKB.</p></sec><sec id="Sec19"><title>Menopausal transition and BA acceleration</title><p id="Par67">Compared to pre-menopausal women, those who underwent the menopausal transition between baseline and follow-up exhibited accelerated comprehensive, liver, metabolic, and kidney BA in both cohorts, with stronger associations observed in UKB than in CMEC (Fig. <xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>). The estimated associations for comprehensive BA acceleration were 1.33 (0.89, 1.76) in CMEC and 2.60 (1.91, 3.30) in UKB. Among organ-specific BAs, menopausal transition was most strongly associated with increased liver BA, followed by metabolic and kidney BA.<fig id="Fig2"><label>Fig. 2</label><caption><p>Associations between change in menopausal status and change in BA acceleration. Models were adjusted for baseline time-invariant covariates as well as baseline values and concurrent changes of time-variant covariates. Time-invariant covariates included demographics, reproductive history, and self-reported chronic diseases: ethnicity, education level, household income (CMEC only), Townsend deprivation index (UKB only), cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, age at menarche, number of live births, ever use of oral contraceptives, and ever use of hormone-replacement therapy (UKB only). Time-variant covariates included age, marital status (CMEC only), employment status, dietary score, total energy intake (CMEC only), smoking status, alcohol consumption, tea consumption, physical activity, body mass index, insomnia, depressive symptoms, and anxiety symptoms, accounting for both baseline values and concurrent changes. The pre-pre group served as the reference group</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4223_Fig2_HTML" id="MO2"/></fig></p><p id="Par68">In the CMEC analysis of six menopausal transition categories (Additional file 1: Table S5), those experiencing menopausal transition (including pre-post, peri-peri, peri-post, and pre-post) showed increased BA acceleration in comprehensive and most organ-specific measures, though some estimates did not reach statistical significance. The strongest associations were observed in the pre-post transition group, with estimates of 1.58 (0.97, 2.19) for comprehensive BA and 5.01 (3.77, 6.24) for liver BA.</p></sec><sec id="Sec20"><title>Age at menopause and BA acceleration</title><p id="Par69">Among women who experienced natural menopause, an earlier age at menopause (&#x0003c;&#x02009;45 years) was generally associated with accelerated comprehensive BA, while a later age at menopause linked to a slower comprehensive BA. However, most estimates were not statistically significant in CMEC (Table <xref rid="Tab3" ref-type="table">3</xref>).
<table-wrap id="Tab3"><label>Table 3</label><caption><p>Associations between age at menopause and BA acceleration</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left" rowspan="2">BA acceleration</th><th align="left" rowspan="2">Age at menopause (years)</th><th align="left" colspan="2">CMEC</th><th align="left" colspan="2">UKB</th></tr><tr><th align="left"><italic>n</italic></th><th align="left"><italic>&#x003b2;</italic> (95% CI)</th><th align="left"><italic>n</italic></th><th align="left"><italic>&#x003b2;</italic> (95% CI)</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left" rowspan="6">Comprehensive BA</td><td align="left">Continuous</td><td align="left">17,108</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.01 (&#x02212;0.03, 0.01)</td><td align="left">59,528</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.05 (&#x02212;0.06, &#x02212;0.04)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x0003c;40 (premature)</td><td align="left">286</td><td align="left">0.31 (&#x02212;0.23, 0.85)</td><td align="left">999</td><td align="left">0.69 (0.39, 0.98)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">40&#x02013;44 (early)</td><td align="left">1795</td><td align="left">0.10 (&#x02212;0.14, 0.33)</td><td align="left">4394</td><td align="left">0.24 (0.09, 0.40)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">45&#x02013;49 (ref)</td><td align="left">6969</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left">14,051</td><td align="left">Ref</td></tr><tr><td align="left">50&#x02013;54 (normal)</td><td align="left">7168</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.06 (&#x02212;0.22, 0.09)</td><td align="left">30,974</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.31 (&#x02212;0.41, &#x02212;0.22)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02265;55 (late)</td><td align="left">890</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.03 (&#x02212;0.35, 0.30)</td><td align="left">9110</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.34 (&#x02212;0.47, &#x02212;0.22)</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="6">Cardiopulmonary BA</td><td align="left">Continuous</td><td align="left">17,108</td><td align="left">0.01 (0.00, 0.01)</td><td align="left">59,528</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.00 (&#x02212;0.00, &#x02212;0.00)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x0003c;40 (premature)</td><td align="left">286</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.18 (&#x02212;0.32, &#x02212;0.03)</td><td align="left">999</td><td align="left">0.06 (0.01, 0.11)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">40&#x02013;44 (early)</td><td align="left">1795</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.04 (&#x02212;0.10, 0.03)</td><td align="left">4394</td><td align="left">0.03 (0.00, 0.06)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">45&#x02013;49 (ref)</td><td align="left">6969</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left">14,051</td><td align="left">Ref</td></tr><tr><td align="left">50&#x02013;54 (normal)</td><td align="left">7168</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.00 (&#x02212;0.04, 0.04)</td><td align="left">30,974</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.01 (&#x02212;0.03, 0.00)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02265;55 (late)</td><td align="left">890</td><td align="left">0.01 (&#x02212;0.08, 0.10)</td><td align="left">9110</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.02 (&#x02212;0.04, 0.01)</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="6">Liver BA</td><td align="left">Continuous</td><td align="left">17,108</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.04 (&#x02212;0.08, &#x02212;0.00)</td><td align="left">59,528</td><td align="left">0.01 (&#x02212;0.01, 0.02)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x0003c;40 (premature)</td><td align="left">286</td><td align="left">1.04 (&#x02212;0.10, 2.18)</td><td align="left">999</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.11 (&#x02212;0.57, 0.36)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">40&#x02013;44 (early)</td><td align="left">1795</td><td align="left">0.43 (&#x02212;0.07, 0.93)</td><td align="left">4394</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.15 (&#x02212;0.39, 0.10)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">45&#x02013;49 (ref)</td><td align="left">6969</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left">14,051</td><td align="left">Ref</td></tr><tr><td align="left">50&#x02013;54 (normal)</td><td align="left">7168</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.00 (&#x02212;0.33, 0.32)</td><td align="left">30,974</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.09 (&#x02212;0.23, 0.06)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02265;55 (late)</td><td align="left">890</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.12 (&#x02212;0.82, 0.57)</td><td align="left">9110</td><td align="left">0.05 (&#x02212;0.15, 0.25)</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="6">Metabolic BA</td><td align="left">Continuous</td><td align="left">17,108</td><td align="left">0.01 (&#x02212;0.01, 0.03)</td><td align="left">59,528</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.02 (&#x02212;0.03, &#x02212;0.00)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x0003c;40 (premature)</td><td align="left">286</td><td align="left">0.43 (&#x02212;0.23, 1.10)</td><td align="left">999</td><td align="left">0.21 (&#x02212;0.23, 0.65)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">40&#x02013;44 (early)</td><td align="left">1795</td><td align="left">0.11 (&#x02212;0.19, 0.40)</td><td align="left">4394</td><td align="left">0.36 (0.13, 0.59)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">45&#x02013;49 (ref)</td><td align="left">6969</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left">14,051</td><td align="left">Ref</td></tr><tr><td align="left">50&#x02013;54 (normal)</td><td align="left">7168</td><td align="left">0.15 (&#x02212;0.04, 0.33)</td><td align="left">30,974</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.06 (&#x02212;0.20, 0.08)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02265;55 (late)</td><td align="left">890</td><td align="left">0.17 (&#x02212;0.24, 0.57)</td><td align="left">9110</td><td align="left">0.11 (&#x02212;0.08, 0.29)</td></tr><tr><td align="left" rowspan="6">Kidney BA</td><td align="left">Continuous</td><td align="left">17,108</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.02 (&#x02212;0.03, 0.00)</td><td align="left">59,528</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.03 (&#x02212;0.04, &#x02212;0.02)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x0003c;40 (premature)</td><td align="left">286</td><td align="left">0.24 (&#x02212;0.27, 0.74)</td><td align="left">999</td><td align="left">0.42 (0.08, 0.75)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">40&#x02013;44 (early)</td><td align="left">1795</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.01 (&#x02212;0.23, 0.21)</td><td align="left">4394</td><td align="left">0.05 (&#x02212;0.12, 0.23)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">45&#x02013;49 (ref)</td><td align="left">6969</td><td align="left">Ref</td><td align="left">14,051</td><td align="left">Ref</td></tr><tr><td align="left">50&#x02013;54 (normal)</td><td align="left">7168</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.15 (&#x02212;0.29, &#x02212;0.01)</td><td align="left">30,974</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.20 (&#x02212;0.31, &#x02212;0.09)</td></tr><tr><td align="left">&#x02265;55 (late)</td><td align="left">890</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.09 (&#x02212;0.40, 0.21)</td><td align="left">9110</td><td align="left">&#x02212;0.19 (&#x02212;0.33, &#x02212;0.05)</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>Models were adjusted for age, ethnicity, education level, household income (CMEC only), Townsend deprivation index (UKB only), marital status (CMEC only), employment status, dietary score, total energy intake (CMEC only), smoking status, alcohol consumption, tea consumption, physical activity, body mass index, insomnia, depressive symptoms, anxiety symptoms, self-reported chronic diseases (cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), age at menarche, number of live births, ever taken oral contraceptive pill, and ever used hormone-replacement therapy (UKB only)</p><p><italic>Abbreviations</italic>
<italic>CMEC</italic> China Multi-Ethnic Cohort, <italic>UKB</italic> UK Biobank, <italic>BA</italic> biological age</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p><p id="Par70">For organ-specific BAs, while the associations varied somewhat between the two cohorts, earlier menopause&#x02014;particularly premature menopause&#x02014;tended to be linked to greater BA acceleration across several organ systems. For instance, premature menopause was associated with accelerated kidney BA, with estimates of 0.24 (&#x02212;&#x02009;0.27, 0.74) in CMEC and 0.42 (0.08, 0.75) in UKB.</p></sec><sec id="Sec21"><title>Sensitivity analysis</title><p id="Par71">The findings remained largely robust after excluding individuals with self-reported chronic diseases, using the multiple imputation datasets, or additionally adjusting for medication use (Additional file 1: Figs. S2&#x02013;S4, Tables S6&#x02013;S11). To further evaluate the robustness of the observed associations, <italic>E</italic>-values were calculated and presented in Additional file 1: Table S12. <italic>E</italic>-values for the associations between menopausal transition and comprehensive BA acceleration were 6.19 in CMEC and 20.89 in UKB, suggesting that the observed estimates are robust, as unmeasured confounders would have to be unrealistically strong to fully account for the observed results.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec22"><title>Associations between menopausal factors and comprehensive BA acceleration according to reproductive history and socioeconomic factors</title><p id="Par72">Stratified analysis showed variations in the associations between menopausal factors and biological aging across reproductive history characteristics (Fig. <xref rid="Fig3" ref-type="fig">3</xref>, Additional file 1: Tables S13 and S14). Women with later ages at first or last live birth exhibited greater comprehensive BA acceleration in both post-menopausal populations and those undergoing the menopausal transition. However, the heterogeneity <italic>P</italic> value reached statistical significance only for age at last live birth in the CMEC analysis (<italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.043). In contrast, the number of live births was found to differently influence the associations between menopausal transition and biological aging across the two cohorts (Fig. <xref rid="Fig3" ref-type="fig">3</xref>). In CMEC, accelerated biological aging linked to menopausal transition was more pronounced in women with&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;2 live births, whereas in UKB, it was stronger in women with 0&#x02013;1 live birth. Moreover, in UKB, HRT use among post-menopausal women was associated with a notable attenuation in comprehensive BA acceleration compared to non-users (Additional file 1: Table S13).<fig id="Fig3"><label>Fig. 3</label><caption><p>Stratified analysis of associations between menopausal transition and change in comprehensive BA acceleration according to reproductive history. The stratified analysis specifically examines the association between menopausal transition (pre to post) and comprehensive BA acceleration, with the pre-pre group as the reference. Models were adjusted for baseline time-invariant covariates as well as baseline values and concurrent changes of time-variant covariates, excluding the stratified variable where applicable. Time-invariant covariates included demographics, reproductive history, and self-reported chronic diseases: ethnicity, education level, household income (CMEC only), Townsend deprivation index (UKB only), cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, age at menarche, number of live births, ever use of oral contraceptives, and ever use of hormone-replacement therapy (UKB only). Time-variant covariates included age, marital status (CMEC only), employment status, dietary score, total energy intake (CMEC only), smoking status, alcohol consumption, tea consumption, physical activity, body mass index, insomnia, depressive symptoms, and anxiety symptoms, accounting for both baseline values and concurrent changes. In CMEC, the heterogeneity <italic>P</italic> value was&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;0.05 for all variables except age at last live birth (<italic>P</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0.043). In UKB, all heterogeneity <italic>P</italic> values were&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;0.05</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4223_Fig3_HTML" id="MO3"/></fig></p><p id="Par73">The stratified analysis by socioeconomic factors showed that the associations between menopausal factors and comprehensive BA acceleration remained largely robust across different education and income levels (Additional file 1: Tables S15&#x02013;S17).</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec23"><title>Discussion</title><sec id="Sec24"><title>Summary of main results</title><p id="Par74">In this study, we comprehensively investigated the associations between three menopausal factors and biological aging acceleration using data from two large, independent cohorts (CMEC and UKB). Women at peri-menopause and post-menopause stages exhibited increased biological aging acceleration compared with pre-menopausal women. Furthermore, women undergoing the menopausal transition, as captured by longitudinal data, exhibited a higher increase in change in biological aging acceleration compared with those who remained pre-menopausal. An earlier age at menopause tended to be associated with accelerated biological aging. Across most organ-specific BA, liver BA showed the most pronounced associations with menopausal factors. Additionally, reproductive history like age at live birth and number of live births emerged as potential modifiers of these associations.</p></sec><sec id="Sec25"><title>Comparison with previous studies</title><p id="Par75">Previous studies on menopause and biological aging have predominantly focused on age at menopause, consistently demonstrating harmful associations between early menopause (&#x0003c;&#x02009;45 years) and various aging measures, including epigenetic age [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>], frailty [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>], telomere length [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>], and phenotypic age [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>]. Our results regarding early menopause and BA acceleration were largely consistent with previous findings. Although most estimates in CMEC were not statistically significant, their directions aligned with those observed in UKB. In contrast, late menopause (&#x02265;&#x02009;55 years) showed inconsistent associations with biological aging across studies. For example, while our study found lower comprehensive and kidney BA acceleration in women with late menopause, other studies reported no association with frailty index [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>] or higher phenotypic age [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>]. These discrepancies might be explained by differences in aging measures [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR39">39</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR40">40</xref>], population characteristics, or organ-specific aging process [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>].</p><p id="Par76">Our study also observed accelerated biological aging among peri-menopausal and post-menopausal women, as well as those who had undergone hysterectomy or oophorectomy, consistent with previous findings linking hysterectomy and oophorectomy to frailty and epigenetic aging [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>]. In CMEC, the weaker associations between oophorectomy and BA acceleration compared to bilateral oophorectomy in UKB may be due to the CMEC questionnaire not distinguishing between unilateral and bilateral oophorectomy. Besides, post-menopausal women using HRT exhibited reduced comprehensive BA acceleration compared to non-users. This finding aligns with a recent study showing that ever-users of HRT appeared biologically younger than never-users [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR41">41</xref>]. However, according to the updated guidelines from the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR42">42</xref>], there is no clear evidence that HRT provides long-term health benefits such as reduced cardiovascular risk or increased life expectancy, although no significant harm has been identified. In this context, the decision to initiate HRT for the management of menopausal symptoms should be made individually, considering the severity of symptoms, personal health risks, type and combination of hormones used, and dosage, as well as the timing and duration of therapy.</p><p id="Par77">In our change-to-change analysis, we identified the longitudinal association between menopausal transition and accelerated biological aging. A key strength of this change-to-change analysis is its ability to capture within-individual changes from pre-menopause to post-menopause, thereby to some extent reducing the time-invariant unmeasured confounding [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR43">43</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR44">44</xref>]. In our cross-sectional analysis of menopausal status, post-menopausal women exhibited greater biological aging acceleration compared to pre-menopausal women. However, in the longitudinal change-to-change analysis, no significant increase in BA acceleration was observed among post-menopausal women compared to their pre-menopausal counterparts. Instead, pronounced acceleration in biological aging was identified among women undergoing the menopausal transition. These findings suggest that the menopausal transition, rather than the post-menopausal state, is the critical period when biological aging accelerates most rapidly. This highlights the menopausal transition as a pivotal window for screening and intervention to improve women&#x02019;s health and promote healthy aging [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR45">45</xref>].</p><p id="Par78">The menopausal transition typically lasts 2&#x02013;8 years [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>]. In this study, the median follow-up duration was 2.01 years for CMEC and 4.50 years for UKB. The longer follow-up in UKB may have captured a higher proportion of women who completed the full transition process, potentially explaining the stronger associations observed in UKB. This interpretation is aligned with findings from the six transition groups in CMEC, where early (pre-peri), late (peri-post), and complete (pre-post) transitions were all associated with accelerated comprehensive BA, with the strongest associations observed in those undergoing the complete transition. Future research could explore the heterogeneity of biological aging among individuals with varying transition durations, investigate whether accelerated aging differs between the early and late phases of the transition, and identify the optimal timing for interventions.</p><p id="Par79">Our study highlighted the associations between menopause and accelerated biological aging across multiple organ systems, identifying the most vulnerable systems as key targets for early intervention during the menopausal transition to reduce aging-related health risks. Among the four organ-specific BAs evaluated in this study, menopause was associated with accelerated liver, metabolic, and kidney BAs. These findings are consistent with existing evidence indicating increased risks of chronic diseases in multiple organ systems following menopause, such as nonalcoholic fatty liver disease [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR46">46</xref>], metabolic-related diseases [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR47">47</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR48">48</xref>], and chronic kidney disease [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR49">49</xref>]. In contrast to the well-documented increased risks of cardiovascular diseases associated with menopause [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>], we did not observe a significant acceleration in cardiopulmonary BA, possibly due to the limited biomarkers used to construct cardiopulmonary BA in this study (SBP and PEF/FEV1), which may not fully reflect the complex aging processes of the cardiovascular and pulmonary systems.</p><p id="Par80">Notably, liver aging emerged as the most vulnerable to menopause, followed by metabolic and kidney aging. The potential biological mechanisms underlying these findings are likely related to the decline in estrogen levels during menopause, which plays a critical role in regulating physiological functions across multiple organs and tissues [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR50">50</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR51">51</xref>]. For example, estradiol plays a critical role in regulating lipid metabolism by reducing visceral fat accumulation, lowering cholesterol levels, modulating fatty acid metabolism, and protecting the liver from inflammatory damage [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR50">50</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR52">52</xref>]. Consequently, the decline in estradiol levels in post-menopausal women may increase the risk of liver fibrosis. Epidemiology studies support the protective role of estrogen. Before menopause, women have a lower risk of liver-related conditions compared to men, but this advantage diminishes after menopause [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR46">46</xref>]. Following the menopausal transition, the prevalence and severity of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (now termed as metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease) and hepatic steatosis significantly increase in women [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR53">53</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR54">54</xref>]. Furthermore, a recent study has suggested that hepatocellular senescence could induce multi-organ senescence through the TGF-&#x003b2; pathway [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR55">55</xref>], providing a potential explanation for the prominent liver aging observed in our study.</p><p id="Par81">Our study suggested that reproductive history, particularly maternal age, may modify the association between menopause and accelerated biological aging. Specifically, we observed stronger biological aging acceleration among women with a later age at first or last live birth in both cohorts. However, previous studies generally suggested that early maternal age (&#x0003c;&#x02009;20 years) was associated with accelerated biological aging [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>]. Due to the relatively limited sample size of women undergoing menopausal transition in our study, we stratified maternal age into two broad categories and were unable to specifically examine the effects of early maternal age (&#x0003c;&#x02009;20 years). Despite these findings, evidence on the relationship between maternal age and long-term health outcomes remains inconsistent. For instance, younger maternal age has been linked to an increased risk of incident dementia [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR56">56</xref>], while other studies found no significant associations between maternal age and cardiovascular disease mortality [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR57">57</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR58">58</xref>]. While our findings indicate potential subgroups of women at higher risk for accelerated aging during the menopausal transition, whether these differences translate into long-term health consequences warrants further investigation.</p></sec><sec id="Sec26"><title>Strength and limitations</title><p id="Par82">To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to comprehensively investigate the association of menopause with comprehensive and multi-organ biological aging. By leveraging longitudinal data and a change-to-change design, we identified accelerated biological aging from pre-menopausal to post-menopausal stages. Also, we explored the potential effect modification of reproductive history factors on the relationship between menopause and biological aging. Furthermore, we utilized data from two large cohorts with distinct genetic backgrounds, yielding consistent results that enhance the robustness and credibility of our findings.</p><p id="Par83">This study has several limitations. First, information on menstrual history and other reproductive variables was self-reported, which may have introduced recall bias, particularly for events that occurred long ago, such as age at menarche. Additionally, in UKB, menopausal status was only categorized as menopausal or non-menopausal during each survey, without distinguishing between pre-menopause and peri-menopause. This limited the precision of classification for transition groups in the longitudinal analysis. For instance, individuals in the pre-peri transition phase were misclassified as being in the pre-pre group. Second, the CMEC lacked data on HRT, and although HRT use was recorded in the UKB, it was not possible to determine whether or how it influenced the reporting menopausal status. Participants whose menopausal status may have been affected by HRT could not be identified, potentially leading to exposure misclassification. Furthermore, the CMEC did not differentiate between unilateral and bilateral oophorectomy. As a result, women with unilateral oophorectomy&#x02014;who may still retain ovarian function&#x02014;were excluded from the longitudinal analysis, which could also contribute to misclassification bias. Third, we constructed four organ-specific biological ages primarily based on clinical laboratory test indicators. However, due to data availability, we were unable to develop biological ages for other organ systems that may be influenced by menopause, such as skin, skeletal, and brain aging [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR51">51</xref>]. Fourth, as an observational study, the possibility of unmeasured confounding cannot be ruled out. However, the use of change-to-change analysis helps mitigate the impact of time-invariant unmeasured confounders, and the calculated <italic>E</italic>-values indicate that any unmeasured confounder would need to be exceptionally strong to fully account for our primary findings. Fifth, although the transition analysis employed a prospective design, the possibility of reverse causality remains. Accelerated biological aging or underlying morbidity may contribute to the loss of ovarian function and earlier menopause. This potential scenario emphasizes the need for healthcare providers to stay vigilant regarding possible health issues that may arise during the menopausal phase. Nonetheless, sensitivity analyses excluding participants with self-reported chronic diseases yielded robust results. Moreover, the follow-up periods were relatively short, especially in the CMEC (median 2.01 years), whereas the menopausal transition can span 2&#x02013;8 years. Further studies with extended follow-up are warranted. Therefore, causal inferences should be drawn with caution. Last, although our findings were largely consistent between the Chinese and UK populations, caution is warranted when generalizing the results. Neither the CMEC nor the UKB are nationally representative cohorts [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR59">59</xref>]. Moreover, potential selection bias due to loss to follow-up, exclusion criteria, and missing data may further limit the generalizability of our findings. Future studies involving more diverse and representative populations are needed for validation.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec27"><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par84">In this study incorporating data from CMEC and UKB, menopause, particularly the menopausal transition, was associated with accelerated comprehensive and organ-specific biological aging, with the most pronounced associations observed in liver aging. Additionally, reproductive history, such as age first or last live birth, emerged as potential modifiers of these associations. Our findings highlight the menopausal transition as a critical window for interventions aimed at promoting women&#x02019;s health and longevity in post-menopausal stages. Further research with longer follow-up in more representative populations is needed to validate these findings.</p></sec><sec id="Sec28" sec-type="supplementary-material"><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>
<supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM1"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4223_MOESM1_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Additional file 1: Supplementary methods. Fig. S1 Change in BA acceleration by change in menopausal status between baseline and follow-up. Fig. S2 Associations between change in menopausal status and change in BA acceleration by excluding individuals with self-reported chronic diseases. Fig. S3 Associations between change in menopausal status and change in BA acceleration based on multiple imputation datasets. Fig. S4 Associations between change in menopausal status and change in BA acceleration with additional adjustment for medication use. Table S1 Distributions of comprehensive and organ-specific biological ages and their component biomarkers in CMEC and UKB. Table S2 Baseline characteristics of study populations according to menopausal status in the cross-sectional sample of CMEC. Table S3 Baseline characteristics of study populations according to menopausal status in the cross-sectional sample of UKB. Table S4 Baseline characteristics of study populations with and without available data for follow-up survey. Table S5 Associations between change in menopausal statusand change in BA acceleration in CMEC. Table S6 Associations between menopausal status and BA acceleration by excluding individuals with self-reported chronic diseases. Table S7 Associations between age at menopause and BA acceleration by excluding individuals with self-reported chronic diseases. Table S8 Associations between menopausal status and BA acceleration based on multiple imputation datasets. Table S9 Associations between age at menopause and BA acceleration based on multiple imputation datasets. Table S10 Associations between menopausal status and BA acceleration with additional adjustment for medication use. Table S11 Associations between age at menopause and BA acceleration with additional adjustment for medication use. Table S12 <italic>E</italic>-values for the estimated associations between menopausal factors and comprehensive BA acceleration. Table S13 Associations between menopausal status and comprehensive BA acceleration stratified by reproductive history. Table S14 Associations between age at menopause and comprehensive BA acceleration stratified by reproductive history. Table S15 Associations between menopausal status and comprehensive BA acceleration stratified by socioeconomic factors. Table S16 Associations between change in menopausal status and change in comprehensive BA acceleration stratified by socioeconomic factors. Table S17 Associations between age at menopause and comprehensive BA acceleration stratified by socioeconomic factors.</p></caption></media></supplementary-material><supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM2"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4223_MOESM2_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Additional file 2: STROBE checklist of items in reports of observational studies.</p></caption></media></supplementary-material></p></sec></body><back><glossary id="AGS1"><title>Abbreviations</title><def-list><def-item><term>ALB</term><def><p id="Par13">Albumin</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ALP</term><def><p id="Par14">Alkaline phosphatase</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>AST</term><def><p id="Par15">Aspartate aminotransferase</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>BA</term><def><p id="Par16">Biological age</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>BFP</term><def><p id="Par17">Body fat percentage</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>BMI</term><def><p id="Par18">Body mass index</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CA</term><def><p id="Par19">Chronological age</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CMEC</term><def><p id="Par20">China Multi-Ethnic Cohort</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>COPD</term><def><p id="Par21">Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CVD</term><def><p id="Par22">Cardiovascular disease</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>FEV1</term><def><p id="Par23">Forced expiratory volume in 1&#x000a0;s</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>GGT</term><def><p id="Par24">Gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>HBA1C</term><def><p id="Par25">Glycated hemoglobin</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>HDL-c</term><def><p id="Par26">High-density lipoprotein cholesterol</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>HRT</term><def><p id="Par27">Hormone-replacement therapy</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>IGF-1</term><def><p id="Par28">Insulin-like growth factor 1</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>KDM</term><def><p id="Par29">Klemera-Doubal method</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>LDL-c</term><def><p id="Par30">Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MCV</term><def><p id="Par31">Mean corpuscular volume</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>NICE</term><def><p id="Par32">National Institute for Health and Care Excellence</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MET</term><def><p id="Par33">Metabolic equivalent tasks</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PEF</term><def><p id="Par34">Peak expiratory flow</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>PLT</term><def><p id="Par35">Platelet count</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>SBP</term><def><p id="Par36">Systolic blood pressure</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>TG</term><def><p id="Par37">Triglyceride</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>UKB</term><def><p id="Par38">UK Biobank</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>WHR</term><def><p id="Par39">Waist-to-hip ratio</p></def></def-item></def-list></glossary><fn-group><fn><p><bold>Publisher&#x02019;s Note</bold></p><p>Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.</p></fn><fn><p>Yi Xiang and Qiong Meng are joint first authors and contributed equally to this work.</p></fn></fn-group><ack><title>Acknowledgements
</title><p>The CMEC study was supported by the National Key R&#x00026;D Program of China (Grant No. 2017YFC0907300). We sincerely acknowledge all participants and staff members of the CMEC study for their invaluable contributions. We extend our heartfelt gratitude to the late Prof. Xiaosong Li from Sichuan University, whose visionary leadership and foundational efforts were instrumental in establishing the CMEC study. Prof. Li sadly passed away in 2019. Additionally, this research was conducted using data from the UK Biobank under Application Number 117185. We also thank all the participants of the UK Biobank for their important contributions to this research.</p></ack><notes notes-type="author-contribution"><title>Authors&#x02019; contributions
</title><p>Y.X., Z.H., and X.X. conceptualized the present study. Y.X. conducted data analysis, wrote and revised the manuscript. X.Z., X.X., Q.M., X.D., J.Y., B. and L.L. contributed to the data collection, data management, and data cleaning. X.X., X.Z., Q.M., Z.H., N.Z., and Y.Z. reviewed and commented on the data analysis, all drafts and the final paper. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.</p></notes><notes notes-type="funding-information"><title>Funding</title><p>This study was funded by the National Natural Foundation of China (Grant No. 82273740) and Sichuan Science and Technology Program (Natural Science Foundation of Sichuan Province, Grant No. 2024NSFSC0552). The study sponsor played no role in the collection, analysis, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the report; or in the decision to submit the paper for publication.</p></notes><notes notes-type="data-availability"><title>Data availability
</title><p>The CMEC data can be accessed by contacting the corresponding author. The UKB data are available to the public upon application through the UK Biobank website (<ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://www.ukbiobank.ac.uk">https://www.ukbiobank.ac.uk</ext-link>).</p></notes><notes><title>Declarations</title><notes id="FPar1"><title>Ethics approval and consent to participate</title><p id="Par85">The CMEC study was approved by the Sichuan University Medical Ethical Review Board (ID: K2016038, K2020022). The UKB was approved by the National Information Governance Board for Health and Social Care and the National Health Service North West Multi-Centre Research Ethics Committee. All participants provided informed consent.</p></notes><notes id="FPar2"><title>Consent for publication</title><p id="Par86">Not applicable.</p></notes><notes id="FPar3" notes-type="COI-statement"><title>Competing interests
</title><p id="Par87">The authors declare no competing interests.</p></notes></notes><ref-list id="Bib1"><title>References</title><ref id="CR1"><label>1.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR1" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Davis</surname><given-names>SR</given-names></name><name><surname>Pinkerton</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Santoro</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Simoncini</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Menopause-biology, consequences, supportive care, and therapeutic options</article-title><source>Cell</source><year>2023</year><volume>186</volume><issue>19</issue><fpage>4038</fpage><lpage>4058</lpage><?supplied-pmid 37678251?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37678251</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR1" publication-type="journal">Davis SR, Pinkerton J, Santoro N, Simoncini T. Menopause-biology, consequences, supportive care, and therapeutic options. Cell. 2023;186(19):4038&#x02013;58.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37678251</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR2"><label>2.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR2" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Mehta</surname><given-names>JM</given-names></name><name><surname>Manson</surname><given-names>JE</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The menopausal transition period and cardiovascular risk</article-title><source>Nat Rev Cardiol</source><year>2024</year><volume>21</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>203</fpage><lpage>211</lpage><?supplied-pmid 37752349?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37752349</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR2" publication-type="journal">Mehta JM, Manson JE. The menopausal transition period and cardiovascular risk. Nat Rev Cardiol. 2024;21(3):203&#x02013;11.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37752349</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR3"><label>3.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR3" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>El Khoudary</surname><given-names>SR</given-names></name><name><surname>Aggarwal</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Beckie</surname><given-names>TM</given-names></name><name><surname>Hodis</surname><given-names>HN</given-names></name><name><surname>Johnson</surname><given-names>AE</given-names></name><name><surname>Langer</surname><given-names>RD</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Menopause transition and cardiovascular disease risk: implications for timing of early prevention: a scientific statement from the American Heart Association</article-title><source>Circulation</source><year>2020</year><volume>142</volume><issue>25</issue><fpage>e506</fpage><lpage>e532</lpage><?supplied-pmid 33251828?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33251828</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR3" publication-type="journal">El Khoudary SR, Aggarwal B, Beckie TM, Hodis HN, Johnson AE, Langer RD, et al. Menopause transition and cardiovascular disease risk: implications for timing of early prevention: a scientific statement from the American Heart Association. Circulation. 2020;142(25):e506&#x02013;32.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33251828</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR4"><label>4.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR4" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Hao</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Fu</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Dong</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhou</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Sun</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Xie</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Age at menopause and all-cause and cause-specific dementia: a prospective analysis of the UK Biobank cohort</article-title><source>Hum Reprod</source><year>2023</year><volume>38</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>1746</fpage><lpage>1754</lpage><?supplied-pmid 37344154?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37344154</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR4" publication-type="journal">Hao W, Fu C, Dong C, Zhou C, Sun H, Xie Z, et al. Age at menopause and all-cause and cause-specific dementia: a prospective analysis of the UK Biobank cohort. Hum Reprod. 2023;38(9):1746&#x02013;54.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37344154</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR5"><label>5.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR5" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Coughlan</surname><given-names>GT</given-names></name><name><surname>Betthauser</surname><given-names>TJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Boyle</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Koscik</surname><given-names>RL</given-names></name><name><surname>Klinger</surname><given-names>HM</given-names></name><name><surname>Chibnik</surname><given-names>LB</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association of age at menopause and hormone therapy use with tau and &#x003b2;-amyloid positron emission tomography</article-title><source>JAMA Neurol</source><year>2023</year><volume>80</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>462</fpage><lpage>473</lpage><?supplied-pmid 37010830?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37010830</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR5" publication-type="journal">Coughlan GT, Betthauser TJ, Boyle R, Koscik RL, Klinger HM, Chibnik LB, et al. Association of age at menopause and hormone therapy use with tau and &#x003b2;-amyloid positron emission tomography. JAMA Neurol. 2023;80(5):462&#x02013;73.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37010830</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR6"><label>6.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR6" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lankester</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Salfati</surname><given-names>ELI</given-names></name><name><surname>Stefanick</surname><given-names>ML</given-names></name><name><surname>Chan</surname><given-names>KHK</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Genetic evidence for causal relationships between age at natural menopause and the risk of ageing-associated adverse health outcomes</article-title><source>Int J Epidemiol</source><year>2023</year><volume>52</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>806</fpage><lpage>816</lpage><?supplied-pmid 36409989?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36409989</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR6" publication-type="journal">Lankester J, Li J, Salfati ELI, Stefanick ML, Chan KHK, Liu S, et al. Genetic evidence for causal relationships between age at natural menopause and the risk of ageing-associated adverse health outcomes. Int J Epidemiol. 2023;52(3):806&#x02013;16.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36409989</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR7"><label>7.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR7" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kanis</surname><given-names>JA</given-names></name><name><surname>Cooper</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Rizzoli</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Reginster</surname><given-names>JY</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>European guidance for the diagnosis and management of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women</article-title><source>Osteoporos Int</source><year>2019</year><volume>30</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>3</fpage><lpage>44</lpage><?supplied-pmid 30324412?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30324412</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR7" publication-type="journal">Kanis JA, Cooper C, Rizzoli R, Reginster JY. European guidance for the diagnosis and management of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women. Osteoporos Int. 2019;30(1):3&#x02013;44.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30324412</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR8"><label>8.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR8" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Gai</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Feng</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Flores</surname><given-names>TM</given-names></name><name><surname>Kang</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Yu</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Leslie</surname><given-names>KK</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Early menopause and hormone therapy as determinants for lung health outcomes: a secondary analysis using the PLCO trial</article-title><source>Thorax</source><year>2024</year><volume>79</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>961</fpage><lpage>969</lpage><?supplied-pmid 38871464?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38871464</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR8" publication-type="journal">Gai X, Feng Y, Flores TM, Kang H, Yu H, Leslie KK, et al. Early menopause and hormone therapy as determinants for lung health outcomes: a secondary analysis using the PLCO trial. Thorax. 2024;79(10):961&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38871464</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR9"><label>9.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR9" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Muka</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Oliver-Williams</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Kunutsor</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Laven</surname><given-names>JS</given-names></name><name><surname>Fauser</surname><given-names>BC</given-names></name><name><surname>Chowdhury</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association of age at onset of menopause and time since onset of menopause with cardiovascular outcomes, intermediate vascular traits, and all-cause mortality: a systematic review and meta-analysis</article-title><source>JAMA cardiology</source><year>2016</year><volume>1</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>767</fpage><lpage>776</lpage><?supplied-pmid 27627190?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27627190</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR9" publication-type="journal">Muka T, Oliver-Williams C, Kunutsor S, Laven JS, Fauser BC, Chowdhury R, et al. Association of age at onset of menopause and time since onset of menopause with cardiovascular outcomes, intermediate vascular traits, and all-cause mortality: a systematic review and meta-analysis. JAMA cardiology. 2016;1(7):767&#x02013;76.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27627190</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR10"><label>10.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR10" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Chung</surname><given-names>HF</given-names></name><name><surname>Dobson</surname><given-names>AJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Wilson</surname><given-names>LF</given-names></name><name><surname>Hickey</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Mishra</surname><given-names>GD</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Menopause, hysterectomy, menopausal hormone therapy and cause-specific mortality: cohort study of UK Biobank participants</article-title><source>Hum Reprod</source><year>2022</year><volume>37</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>2175</fpage><lpage>2185</lpage><?supplied-pmid 35690930?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35690930</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR10" publication-type="journal">Xu Z, Chung HF, Dobson AJ, Wilson LF, Hickey M, Mishra GD. Menopause, hysterectomy, menopausal hormone therapy and cause-specific mortality: cohort study of UK Biobank participants. Hum Reprod. 2022;37(9):2175&#x02013;85.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35690930</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR11"><label>11.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR11" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Monteleone</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Mascagni</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Giannini</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Genazzani</surname><given-names>AR</given-names></name><name><surname>Simoncini</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Symptoms of menopause - global prevalence, physiology and implications</article-title><source>Nat Rev Endocrinol</source><year>2018</year><volume>14</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>199</fpage><lpage>215</lpage><?supplied-pmid 29393299?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29393299</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR11" publication-type="journal">Monteleone P, Mascagni G, Giannini A, Genazzani AR, Simoncini T. Symptoms of menopause - global prevalence, physiology and implications. Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2018;14(4):199&#x02013;215.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29393299</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR12"><label>12.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Fuster V. Chronological vs biological aging: JACC Journals Family Series. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2024;83(16):1614&#x02013;18.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR13"><label>13.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR13" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lehallier</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Gate</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Schaum</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Nanasi</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>SE</given-names></name><name><surname>Yousef</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Undulating changes in human plasma proteome profiles across the lifespan</article-title><source>Nat Med</source><year>2019</year><volume>25</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>1843</fpage><lpage>1850</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31806903?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31806903</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR13" publication-type="journal">Lehallier B, Gate D, Schaum N, Nanasi T, Lee SE, Yousef H, et al. Undulating changes in human plasma proteome profiles across the lifespan. Nat Med. 2019;25(12):1843&#x02013;50.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31806903</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR14"><label>14.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR14" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Levine</surname><given-names>ME</given-names></name><name><surname>Lu</surname><given-names>AT</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>BH</given-names></name><name><surname>Hernandez</surname><given-names>DG</given-names></name><name><surname>Singleton</surname><given-names>AB</given-names></name><name><surname>Ferrucci</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Menopause accelerates biological aging</article-title><source>Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A</source><year>2016</year><volume>113</volume><issue>33</issue><fpage>9327</fpage><lpage>9332</lpage><?supplied-pmid 27457926?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27457926</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR14" publication-type="journal">Levine ME, Lu AT, Chen BH, Hernandez DG, Singleton AB, Ferrucci L, et al. Menopause accelerates biological aging. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016;113(33):9327&#x02013;32.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27457926</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR15"><label>15.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR15" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Schuermans</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Nakao</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Uddin</surname><given-names>MM</given-names></name><name><surname>Hornsby</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Ganesh</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Shadyab</surname><given-names>AH</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Age at menopause, leukocyte telomere length, and coronary artery disease in postmenopausal women</article-title><source>Circ Res</source><year>2023</year><volume>133</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>376</fpage><lpage>386</lpage><?supplied-pmid 37489536?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37489536</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR15" publication-type="journal">Schuermans A, Nakao T, Uddin MM, Hornsby W, Ganesh S, Shadyab AH, et al. Age at menopause, leukocyte telomere length, and coronary artery disease in postmenopausal women. Circ Res. 2023;133(5):376&#x02013;86.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37489536</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR16"><label>16.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR16" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Verschoor</surname><given-names>CP</given-names></name><name><surname>Tamim</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Frailty is inversely related to age at menopause and elevated in women who have had a hysterectomy: an analysis of the canadian longitudinal study on aging</article-title><source>J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci</source><year>2019</year><volume>74</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>675</fpage><lpage>682</lpage><?supplied-pmid 29688443?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29688443</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR16" publication-type="journal">Verschoor CP, Tamim H. Frailty is inversely related to age at menopause and elevated in women who have had a hysterectomy: an analysis of the canadian longitudinal study on aging. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2019;74(5):675&#x02013;82.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29688443</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR17"><label>17.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Zheng X, Chen Y, Lin S-Q, Liu C-N, Liu T, Liu C-A, et al. Exploring the impact of women-specific reproductive factors on phenotypic aging and the role of life&#x02019;s essential 8. Nutr J. 2024;23(1).</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR18"><label>18.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR18" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Fan</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>Q</given-names></name><name><surname>Bi</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Fang</surname><given-names>Q</given-names></name><name><surname>Luo</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Reproductive factors and biological aging: the association with all-cause and cause-specific premature mortality</article-title><source>Hum Reprod</source><year>2024</year><volume>40</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>148</fpage><lpage>156</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR18" publication-type="journal">Fan G, Liu Q, Bi J, Fang Q, Luo F, Huang X, et al. Reproductive factors and biological aging: the association with all-cause and cause-specific premature mortality. Hum Reprod. 2024;40(1):148&#x02013;56.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR19"><label>19.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR19" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Nie</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Yan</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Distinct biological ages of organs and systems identified from a multi-omics study</article-title><source>Cell Rep</source><year>2022</year><volume>38</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>110459</fpage><?supplied-pmid 35263580?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35263580</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR19" publication-type="journal">Nie C, Li Y, Li R, Yan Y, Zhang D, Li T, et al. Distinct biological ages of organs and systems identified from a multi-omics study. Cell Rep. 2022;38(10): 110459.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35263580</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR20"><label>20.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR20" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Tian</surname><given-names>YE</given-names></name><name><surname>Cropley</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Maier</surname><given-names>AB</given-names></name><name><surname>Lautenschlager</surname><given-names>NT</given-names></name><name><surname>Breakspear</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Zalesky</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Heterogeneous aging across multiple organ systems and prediction of chronic disease and mortality</article-title><source>Nat Med</source><year>2023</year><volume>29</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>1221</fpage><lpage>1231</lpage><?supplied-pmid 37024597?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37024597</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR20" publication-type="journal">Tian YE, Cropley V, Maier AB, Lautenschlager NT, Breakspear M, Zalesky A. Heterogeneous aging across multiple organ systems and prediction of chronic disease and mortality. Nat Med. 2023;29(5):1221&#x02013;31.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37024597</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR21"><label>21.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR21" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Liang</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Ma</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Song</surname><given-names>Q</given-names></name><name><surname>Sun</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhou</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Heianza</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Joint associations of actual age and genetically determined age at menarche with risk of mortality</article-title><source>JAMA Netw Open</source><year>2021</year><volume>4</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>e2115297</fpage><?supplied-pmid 34190994?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34190994</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR21" publication-type="journal">Liang Z, Ma H, Song Q, Sun D, Zhou T, Heianza Y, et al. Joint associations of actual age and genetically determined age at menarche with risk of mortality. JAMA Netw Open. 2021;4(6): e2115297.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34190994</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR22"><label>22.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR22" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Liang</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Dobson</surname><given-names>AJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Chung</surname><given-names>HF</given-names></name><name><surname>van der Schouw</surname><given-names>YT</given-names></name><name><surname>Sandin</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Weiderpass</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association of infertility and recurrent pregnancy loss with the risk of dementia</article-title><source>Eur J Epidemiol</source><year>2024</year><volume>39</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>785</fpage><lpage>793</lpage><?supplied-pmid 38888679?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38888679</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR22" publication-type="journal">Liang C, Dobson AJ, Chung HF, van der Schouw YT, Sandin S, Weiderpass E, et al. Association of infertility and recurrent pregnancy loss with the risk of dementia. Eur J Epidemiol. 2024;39(7):785&#x02013;93.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38888679</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR23"><label>23.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR23" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Fan</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>Q</given-names></name><name><surname>Bi</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Qin</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Fang</surname><given-names>Q</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association between female-specific reproductive factors and leukocyte telomere length</article-title><source>Hum Reprod</source><year>2023</year><volume>38</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>2239</fpage><lpage>2246</lpage><?supplied-pmid 37671590?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37671590</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR23" publication-type="journal">Fan G, Liu Q, Bi J, Qin X, Fang Q, Wang Y, et al. Association between female-specific reproductive factors and leukocyte telomere length. Hum Reprod. 2023;38(11):2239&#x02013;46.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37671590</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR24"><label>24.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Zhao X, Hong F, Yin J, Tang W, Zhang G, Liang X, et al. Cohort profile: the China Multi-Ethnic Cohort (CMEC) study. Int J Epidemiol. 2021;50(3):721-l.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR25"><label>25.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR25" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sudlow</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Gallacher</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Allen</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Beral</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Burton</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Danesh</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>UK Biobank: an open access resource for identifying the causes of a wide range of complex diseases of middle and old age</article-title><source>PLoS Med</source><year>2015</year><volume>12</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>e1001779</fpage><?supplied-pmid 25826379?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25826379</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR25" publication-type="journal">Sudlow C, Gallacher J, Allen N, Beral V, Burton P, Danesh J, et al. UK Biobank: an open access resource for identifying the causes of a wide range of complex diseases of middle and old age. PLoS Med. 2015;12(3): e1001779.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25826379</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR26"><label>26.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR26" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Klemera</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Doubal</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>A new approach to the concept and computation of biological age</article-title><source>Mech Ageing Dev</source><year>2006</year><volume>127</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>240</fpage><lpage>248</lpage><?supplied-pmid 16318865?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">16318865</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR26" publication-type="journal">Klemera P, Doubal S. A new approach to the concept and computation of biological age. Mech Ageing Dev. 2006;127(3):240&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">16318865</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR27"><label>27.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR27" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Development and validation of 2 composite aging measures using routine clinical biomarkers in the chinese population: analyses from 2 prospective cohort studies</article-title><source>J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci</source><year>2021</year><volume>76</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>1627</fpage><lpage>1632</lpage><?supplied-pmid 32946548?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32946548</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR27" publication-type="journal">Liu Z. Development and validation of 2 composite aging measures using routine clinical biomarkers in the chinese population: analyses from 2 prospective cohort studies. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2021;76(9):1627&#x02013;32.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32946548</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR28"><label>28.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR28" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Chan</surname><given-names>MS</given-names></name><name><surname>Arnold</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Offer</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Hammami</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Mafham</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Armitage</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>A biomarker-based biological age in UK Biobank: composition and prediction of mortality and hospital admissions</article-title><source>J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci</source><year>2021</year><volume>76</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>1295</fpage><lpage>1302</lpage><?supplied-pmid 33693684?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33693684</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR28" publication-type="journal">Chan MS, Arnold M, Offer A, Hammami I, Mafham M, Armitage J, et al. A biomarker-based biological age in UK Biobank: composition and prediction of mortality and hospital admissions. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2021;76(7):1295&#x02013;302.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33693684</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR29"><label>29.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR29" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Xiang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Xu</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Tang</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Tea consumption and attenuation of biological aging: a longitudinal analysis from two cohort studies</article-title><source>Lancet Reg Health West Pac</source><year>2024</year><volume>42</volume><fpage>100955</fpage><?supplied-pmid 38075587?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38075587</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR29" publication-type="journal">Xiang Y, Xu H, Chen H, Tang D, Huang Z, Zhang Y, et al. Tea consumption and attenuation of biological aging: a longitudinal analysis from two cohort studies. Lancet Reg Health West Pac. 2024;42: 100955.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38075587</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR30"><label>30.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Zhang Y, Tang D, Zhang N, Xiang Y, Hu Y, Qian W, et al. Lifestyles and their relative contribution to biological aging across multiple-organ systems: change analysis from the China Multi-Ethnic Cohort study. Elife. 2025;13:RP99924.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR31"><label>31.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR31" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Xiao</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Qin</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Lv</surname><given-names>X</given-names></name><name><surname>Dai</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Ciren</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Yangla</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Dietary patterns and cardiometabolic risks in diverse less-developed ethnic minority regions: results from the China Multi-Ethnic Cohort (CMEC) study</article-title><source>Lancet Reg Health West Pac</source><year>2021</year><volume>15</volume><fpage>100252</fpage><?supplied-pmid 34528018?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34528018</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR31" publication-type="journal">Xiao X, Qin Z, Lv X, Dai Y, Ciren Z, Yangla Y, et al. Dietary patterns and cardiometabolic risks in diverse less-developed ethnic minority regions: results from the China Multi-Ethnic Cohort (CMEC) study. Lancet Reg Health West Pac. 2021;15: 100252.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34528018</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR32"><label>32.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR32" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Li</surname><given-names>WD</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Consumption of coffee and tea and risk of developing stroke, dementia, and poststroke dementia: a cohort study in the UK Biobank</article-title><source>PLoS Med</source><year>2021</year><volume>18</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>e1003830</fpage><?supplied-pmid 34784347?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34784347</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR32" publication-type="journal">Zhang Y, Yang H, Li S, Li WD, Wang Y. Consumption of coffee and tea and risk of developing stroke, dementia, and poststroke dementia: a cohort study in the UK Biobank. PLoS Med. 2021;18(11): e1003830.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34784347</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR33"><label>33.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR33" publication-type="book"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Angrist</surname><given-names>JD</given-names></name><name><surname>Pischke</surname><given-names>J-S</given-names></name></person-group><source>Mostly harmless econometrics: an empiricist&#x02019;s companion</source><year>2009</year><publisher-loc>Princeton, NJ</publisher-loc><publisher-name>Princeton University Press</publisher-name></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR33" publication-type="book">Angrist JD, Pischke J-S. Mostly harmless econometrics: an empiricist&#x02019;s companion. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press; 2009.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR34"><label>34.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR34" publication-type="book"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wooldridge</surname><given-names>JM</given-names></name></person-group><source>Econometric analysis of cross section and panel data</source><year>2010</year><edition>2</edition><publisher-loc>Cambridge, MA</publisher-loc><publisher-name>The MIT Press</publisher-name></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR34" publication-type="book">Wooldridge JM. Econometric analysis of cross section and panel data. 2nd ed. Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press; 2010.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR35"><label>35.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR35" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Trichia</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Luben</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Khaw</surname><given-names>KT</given-names></name><name><surname>Wareham</surname><given-names>NJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Imamura</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Forouhi</surname><given-names>NG</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The associations of longitudinal changes in consumption of total and types of dairy products and markers of metabolic risk and adiposity: findings from the European Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC)-Norfolk study</article-title><source>United Kingdom Am J Clin Nutr</source><year>2020</year><volume>111</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>1018</fpage><lpage>1026</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31915813?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31915813</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR35" publication-type="journal">Trichia E, Luben R, Khaw KT, Wareham NJ, Imamura F, Forouhi NG. The associations of longitudinal changes in consumption of total and types of dairy products and markers of metabolic risk and adiposity: findings from the European Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC)-Norfolk study. United Kingdom Am J Clin Nutr. 2020;111(5):1018&#x02013;26.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31915813</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR36"><label>36.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR36" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Heianza</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Sun</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Huang</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Ma</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Rimm</surname><given-names>EB</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Improving adherence to healthy dietary patterns, genetic risk, and long term weight gain: gene-diet interaction analysis in two prospective cohort studies</article-title><source>BMJ (Clinical research ed)</source><year>2018</year><volume>360</volume><fpage>j5644</fpage><?supplied-pmid 29321156?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29321156</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR36" publication-type="journal">Wang T, Heianza Y, Sun D, Huang T, Ma W, Rimm EB, et al. Improving adherence to healthy dietary patterns, genetic risk, and long term weight gain: gene-diet interaction analysis in two prospective cohort studies. BMJ (Clinical research ed). 2018;360: j5644.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29321156</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR37"><label>37.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR37" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Hong</surname><given-names>JS</given-names></name><name><surname>Yi</surname><given-names>SW</given-names></name><name><surname>Kang</surname><given-names>HC</given-names></name><name><surname>Jee</surname><given-names>SH</given-names></name><name><surname>Kang</surname><given-names>HG</given-names></name><name><surname>Bayasgalan</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Age at menopause and cause-specific mortality in South Korean women: Kangwha Cohort Study</article-title><source>Maturitas</source><year>2007</year><volume>56</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>411</fpage><lpage>419</lpage><?supplied-pmid 17161927?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17161927</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR37" publication-type="journal">Hong JS, Yi SW, Kang HC, Jee SH, Kang HG, Bayasgalan G, et al. Age at menopause and cause-specific mortality in South Korean women: Kangwha Cohort Study. Maturitas. 2007;56(4):411&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17161927</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR38"><label>38.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR38" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>VanderWeele</surname><given-names>TJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Ding</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Sensitivity analysis in observational research: introducing the E-value</article-title><source>Ann Intern Med</source><year>2017</year><volume>167</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>268</fpage><lpage>274</lpage><?supplied-pmid 28693043?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28693043</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR38" publication-type="journal">VanderWeele TJ, Ding P. Sensitivity analysis in observational research: introducing the E-value. Ann Intern Med. 2017;167(4):268&#x02013;74.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28693043</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR39"><label>39.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR39" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Belsky</surname><given-names>DW</given-names></name><name><surname>Moffitt</surname><given-names>TE</given-names></name><name><surname>Cohen</surname><given-names>AA</given-names></name><name><surname>Corcoran</surname><given-names>DL</given-names></name><name><surname>Levine</surname><given-names>ME</given-names></name><name><surname>Prinz</surname><given-names>JA</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Eleven telomere, epigenetic clock, and biomarker-composite quantifications of biological aging: do they measure the same thing?</article-title><source>Am J Epidemiol</source><year>2018</year><volume>187</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>1220</fpage><lpage>1230</lpage><?supplied-pmid 29149257?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29149257</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR39" publication-type="journal">Belsky DW, Moffitt TE, Cohen AA, Corcoran DL, Levine ME, Prinz JA, et al. Eleven telomere, epigenetic clock, and biomarker-composite quantifications of biological aging: do they measure the same thing? Am J Epidemiol. 2018;187(6):1220&#x02013;30.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29149257</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR40"><label>40.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR40" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Jylhava</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Pedersen</surname><given-names>NL</given-names></name><name><surname>Hagg</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Biological age predictors</article-title><source>EBioMedicine</source><year>2017</year><volume>21</volume><fpage>29</fpage><lpage>36</lpage><?supplied-pmid 28396265?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28396265</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR40" publication-type="journal">Jylhava J, Pedersen NL, Hagg S. Biological age predictors. EBioMedicine. 2017;21:29&#x02013;36.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28396265</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR41"><label>41.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Liu Y, Li C. Hormone therapy and biological aging in postmenopausal women. JAMA network open. 2024;7(8):e2430839.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR42"><label>42.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. Menopause: identification and management. London: National Institute for Health and Care Excellence; 2015. Available from: <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/ng23">https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/ng23</ext-link>.&#x000a0;Updated 2024 Nov 7; cited 2025 May 9.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR43"><label>43.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR43" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Gunasekara</surname><given-names>FI</given-names></name><name><surname>Richardson</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Carter</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Blakely</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Fixed effects analysis of repeated measures data</article-title><source>Int J Epidemiol</source><year>2014</year><volume>43</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>264</fpage><lpage>269</lpage><?supplied-pmid 24366487?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24366487</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR43" publication-type="journal">Gunasekara FI, Richardson K, Carter K, Blakely T. Fixed effects analysis of repeated measures data. Int J Epidemiol. 2014;43(1):264&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24366487</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR44"><label>44.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR44" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Smith</surname><given-names>JD</given-names></name><name><surname>Hou</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Hu</surname><given-names>FB</given-names></name><name><surname>Rimm</surname><given-names>EB</given-names></name><name><surname>Spiegelman</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Willett</surname><given-names>WC</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>A comparison of different methods for evaluating diet, physical activity, and long-term weight gain in 3 prospective cohort studies</article-title><source>J Nutr</source><year>2015</year><volume>145</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>2527</fpage><lpage>2534</lpage><?supplied-pmid 26377763?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26377763</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR44" publication-type="journal">Smith JD, Hou T, Hu FB, Rimm EB, Spiegelman D, Willett WC, et al. A comparison of different methods for evaluating diet, physical activity, and long-term weight gain in 3 prospective cohort studies. J Nutr. 2015;145(11):2527&#x02013;34.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26377763</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR45"><label>45.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR45" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lobo</surname><given-names>RA</given-names></name><name><surname>Gompel</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Management of menopause: a view towards prevention</article-title><source>Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol</source><year>2022</year><volume>10</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>457</fpage><lpage>470</lpage><?supplied-pmid 35526556?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35526556</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR45" publication-type="journal">Lobo RA, Gompel A. Management of menopause: a view towards prevention. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol. 2022;10(6):457&#x02013;70.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35526556</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR46"><label>46.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR46" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lonardo</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Nascimbeni</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Ballestri</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Fairweather</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Win</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Than</surname><given-names>TA</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Sex differences in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: state of the art and identification of research gaps</article-title><source>Hepatology</source><year>2019</year><volume>70</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>1457</fpage><lpage>1469</lpage><?supplied-pmid 30924946?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30924946</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR46" publication-type="journal">Lonardo A, Nascimbeni F, Ballestri S, Fairweather D, Win S, Than TA, et al. Sex differences in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: state of the art and identification of research gaps. Hepatology. 2019;70(4):1457&#x02013;69.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30924946</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR47"><label>47.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR47" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lambrinoudaki</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Paschou</surname><given-names>SA</given-names></name><name><surname>Armeni</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Goulis</surname><given-names>DG</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The interplay between diabetes mellitus and menopause: clinical implications</article-title><source>Nat Rev Endocrinol</source><year>2022</year><volume>18</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>608</fpage><lpage>622</lpage><?supplied-pmid 35798847?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35798847</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR47" publication-type="journal">Lambrinoudaki I, Paschou SA, Armeni E, Goulis DG. The interplay between diabetes mellitus and menopause: clinical implications. Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2022;18(10):608&#x02013;22.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35798847</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR48"><label>48.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR48" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Tan</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Thomas</surname><given-names>RL</given-names></name><name><surname>Campbell</surname><given-names>MD</given-names></name><name><surname>Prior</surname><given-names>SL</given-names></name><name><surname>Bracken</surname><given-names>RM</given-names></name><name><surname>Churm</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Effects of exercise training on metabolic syndrome risk factors in post-menopausal women - a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials</article-title><source>Clin Nutr</source><year>2023</year><volume>42</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>337</fpage><lpage>351</lpage><?supplied-pmid 36736057?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36736057</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR48" publication-type="journal">Tan A, Thomas RL, Campbell MD, Prior SL, Bracken RM, Churm R. Effects of exercise training on metabolic syndrome risk factors in post-menopausal women - a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. Clin Nutr. 2023;42(3):337&#x02013;51.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36736057</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR49"><label>49.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR49" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kang</surname><given-names>SC</given-names></name><name><surname>Jhee</surname><given-names>JH</given-names></name><name><surname>Joo</surname><given-names>YS</given-names></name><name><surname>Lee</surname><given-names>SM</given-names></name><name><surname>Nam</surname><given-names>KH</given-names></name><name><surname>Yun</surname><given-names>HR</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association of reproductive lifespan duration and chronic kidney disease in postmenopausal women</article-title><source>Mayo Clin Proc</source><year>2020</year><volume>95</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>2621</fpage><lpage>2632</lpage><?supplied-pmid 33168161?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33168161</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR49" publication-type="journal">Kang SC, Jhee JH, Joo YS, Lee SM, Nam KH, Yun HR, et al. Association of reproductive lifespan duration and chronic kidney disease in postmenopausal women. Mayo Clin Proc. 2020;95(12):2621&#x02013;32.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33168161</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR50"><label>50.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR50" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Barros</surname><given-names>RP</given-names></name><name><surname>Gustafsson</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Estrogen receptors and the metabolic network</article-title><source>Cell Metab</source><year>2011</year><volume>14</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>289</fpage><lpage>299</lpage><?supplied-pmid 21907136?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21907136</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR50" publication-type="journal">Barros RP, Gustafsson J. Estrogen receptors and the metabolic network. Cell Metab. 2011;14(3):289&#x02013;99.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">21907136</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR51"><label>51.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR51" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Camon</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Garratt</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Correa</surname><given-names>SM</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Exploring the effects of estrogen deficiency and aging on organismal homeostasis during menopause</article-title><source>Nat Aging</source><year>2024</year><volume>4</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>1731</fpage><lpage>1744</lpage><?supplied-pmid 39672893?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39672893</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR51" publication-type="journal">Camon C, Garratt M, Correa SM. Exploring the effects of estrogen deficiency and aging on organismal homeostasis during menopause. Nat Aging. 2024;4(12):1731&#x02013;44.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39672893</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR52"><label>52.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR52" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Cherubini</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Ostadreza</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Jamialahmadi</surname><given-names>O</given-names></name><name><surname>Pelusi</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Rrapaj</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Casirati</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Interaction between estrogen receptor-&#x003b1; and PNPLA3 p.I148M variant drives fatty liver disease susceptibility in women</article-title><source>Nat Med.</source><year>2023</year><volume>29</volume><issue>10</issue><fpage>2643</fpage><lpage>55</lpage><?supplied-pmid 37749332?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37749332</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR52" publication-type="journal">Cherubini A, Ostadreza M, Jamialahmadi O, Pelusi S, Rrapaj E, Casirati E, et al. Interaction between estrogen receptor-&#x003b1; and PNPLA3 p.I148M variant drives fatty liver disease susceptibility in women. Nat Med. 2023;29(10):2643&#x02013;55.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37749332</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR53"><label>53.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR53" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>V&#x000f6;lzke</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Schwarz</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Baumeister</surname><given-names>SE</given-names></name><name><surname>Wallaschofski</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Schwahn</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Grabe</surname><given-names>HJ</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Menopausal status and hepatic steatosis in a general female population</article-title><source>Gut</source><year>2007</year><volume>56</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>594</fpage><lpage>595</lpage><?supplied-pmid 17369390?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17369390</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR53" publication-type="journal">V&#x000f6;lzke H, Schwarz S, Baumeister SE, Wallaschofski H, Schwahn C, Grabe HJ, et al. Menopausal status and hepatic steatosis in a general female population. Gut. 2007;56(4):594&#x02013;5.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17369390</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR54"><label>54.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR54" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>JD</given-names></name><name><surname>Abdelmalek</surname><given-names>MF</given-names></name><name><surname>Pang</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Guy</surname><given-names>CD</given-names></name><name><surname>Smith</surname><given-names>AD</given-names></name><name><surname>Diehl</surname><given-names>AM</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Gender and menopause impact severity of fibrosis among patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis</article-title><source>Hepatology</source><year>2014</year><volume>59</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>1406</fpage><lpage>1414</lpage><?supplied-pmid 24123276?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24123276</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR54" publication-type="journal">Yang JD, Abdelmalek MF, Pang H, Guy CD, Smith AD, Diehl AM, et al. Gender and menopause impact severity of fibrosis among patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. Hepatology. 2014;59(4):1406&#x02013;14.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">24123276</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR55"><label>55.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR55" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kiourtis</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Terradas-Terradas</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Gee</surname><given-names>LM</given-names></name><name><surname>May</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Georgakopoulou</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Collins</surname><given-names>AL</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Hepatocellular senescence induces multi-organ senescence and dysfunction via TGF&#x003b2;</article-title><source>Nat Cell Biol</source><year>2024</year><volume>26</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>2075</fpage><lpage>2083</lpage><?supplied-pmid 39537753?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39537753</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR55" publication-type="journal">Kiourtis C, Terradas-Terradas M, Gee LM, May S, Georgakopoulou A, Collins AL, et al. Hepatocellular senescence induces multi-organ senescence and dysfunction via TGF&#x003b2;. Nat Cell Biol. 2024;26(12):2075&#x02013;83.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39537753</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR56"><label>56.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR56" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Gong</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Harris</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Peters</surname><given-names>SAE</given-names></name><name><surname>Woodward</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Reproductive factors and the risk of incident dementia: a cohort study of UK Biobank participants</article-title><source>PLoS Med</source><year>2022</year><volume>19</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>e1003955</fpage><?supplied-pmid 35381014?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35381014</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR56" publication-type="journal">Gong J, Harris K, Peters SAE, Woodward M. Reproductive factors and the risk of incident dementia: a cohort study of UK Biobank participants. PLoS Med. 2022;19(4): e1003955.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35381014</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR57"><label>57.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR57" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Yan</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Lu</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Lin</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Zheng</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Reproductive factors and risk of cardiovascular diseases and all-cause and cardiovascular mortality in American women: NHANES 2003&#x02013;2018</article-title><source>BMC Womens Health</source><year>2024</year><volume>24</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>222</fpage><?supplied-pmid 38581038?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38581038</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR57" publication-type="journal">Yan Y, Lu H, Lin S, Zheng Y. Reproductive factors and risk of cardiovascular diseases and all-cause and cardiovascular mortality in American women: NHANES 2003&#x02013;2018. BMC Womens Health. 2024;24(1):222.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38581038</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR58"><label>58.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR58" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Appiah</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Kim</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Fuquay</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>de Riese</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Ebong</surname><given-names>IA</given-names></name><name><surname>Nwabuo</surname><given-names>CC</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Maternal age at birth of last child and cardiovascular disease mortality later in life among a national cohort of postmenopausal women from the United States</article-title><source>Menopause</source><year>2023</year><volume>30</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>393</fpage><lpage>400</lpage><?supplied-pmid 36749913?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36749913</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR58" publication-type="journal">Appiah D, Kim C, Fuquay T, de Riese C, Ebong IA, Nwabuo CC. Maternal age at birth of last child and cardiovascular disease mortality later in life among a national cohort of postmenopausal women from the United States. Menopause. 2023;30(4):393&#x02013;400.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36749913</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR59"><label>59.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR59" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Keyes</surname><given-names>KM</given-names></name><name><surname>Westreich</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>UK Biobank, big data, and the consequences of non-representativeness</article-title><source>Lancet</source><year>2019</year><volume>393</volume><issue>10178</issue><fpage>1297</fpage><?supplied-pmid 30938313?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30938313</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR59" publication-type="journal">Keyes KM, Westreich D. UK Biobank, big data, and the consequences of non-representativeness. Lancet. 2019;393(10178):1297.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30938313</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref></ref-list></back></article>