# Functional and internalizing disorders co-aggregate with cardiometabolic and immune-related diseases within families: a population-based cohort study.

<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//NLM//DTD JATS (Z39.96) Journal Archiving and Interchange DTD with MathML3 v1.3 20210610//EN" "JATS-archivearticle1-3-mathml3.dtd"> 
<article xmlns:ali="http://www.niso.org/schemas/ali/1.0/" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" article-type="research-article" dtd-version="1.3"><?properties open_access?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierValue -//Springer-Verlag//DTD A++ V2.4//EN?><?DTDIdentifier.IdentifierType public?><?SourceDTD.DTDName A++V2.4.dtd?><?SourceDTD.Version 2.4?><?ConverterInfo.XSLTName springer2nlmx2.xsl?><?ConverterInfo.Version 1?><processing-meta base-tagset="archiving" mathml-version="3.0" table-model="xhtml" tagset-family="jats"><restricted-by>pmc</restricted-by></processing-meta><front><journal-meta><journal-id journal-id-type="nlm-ta">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-id journal-id-type="iso-abbrev">BMC Med</journal-id><journal-title-group><journal-title>BMC Medicine</journal-title></journal-title-group><issn pub-type="epub">1741-7015</issn><publisher><publisher-name>BioMed Central</publisher-name><publisher-loc>London</publisher-loc></publisher></journal-meta>
<article-meta><article-id pub-id-type="pmcid">12337435</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="pmid">40784894</article-id>
<article-id pub-id-type="publisher-id">4293</article-id><article-id pub-id-type="doi">10.1186/s12916-025-04293-7</article-id><article-categories><subj-group subj-group-type="heading"><subject>Research</subject></subj-group></article-categories><title-group><article-title>Functional and internalizing disorders co-aggregate with cardiometabolic and immune-related diseases within families: a population-based cohort study</article-title></title-group><contrib-group><contrib contrib-type="author" corresp="yes"><name><surname>Steen</surname><given-names>Olivier D.</given-names></name><address><email>o.d.steen@umcg.nl</email></address><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Bos</surname><given-names>Martje</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>van Ockenburg</surname><given-names>Sonja L.</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Zhou</surname><given-names>Yiling</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Nolte</surname><given-names>Ilja M.</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Snieder</surname><given-names>Harold</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff3">3</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Kendler</surname><given-names>Kenneth</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff4">4</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>Rosmalen</surname><given-names>Judith G. M.</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff2">2</xref></contrib><contrib contrib-type="author"><name><surname>van Loo</surname><given-names>Hanna M.</given-names></name><xref ref-type="aff" rid="Aff1">1</xref></contrib><aff id="Aff1"><label>1</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/03cv38k47</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.4494.d</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0000 9558 4598</institution-id><institution>Department of Psychiatry, </institution><institution>University of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, </institution></institution-wrap>Groningen, Netherlands </aff><aff id="Aff2"><label>2</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/03cv38k47</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.4494.d</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0000 9558 4598</institution-id><institution>Department of Internal Medicine, </institution><institution>University of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, </institution></institution-wrap>Groningen, Netherlands </aff><aff id="Aff3"><label>3</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/03cv38k47</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.4494.d</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0000 9558 4598</institution-id><institution>Department of Epidemiology, </institution><institution>University of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, </institution></institution-wrap>Groningen, Netherlands </aff><aff id="Aff4"><label>4</label><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="ROR">https://ror.org/02nkdxk79</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="GRID">grid.224260.0</institution-id><institution-id institution-id-type="ISNI">0000 0004 0458 8737</institution-id><institution>Virginia Institute for Psychiatric and Behavioral Genetics, </institution><institution>Virginia Commonwealth University, </institution></institution-wrap>Richmond, USA </aff></contrib-group><pub-date pub-type="epub"><day>11</day><month>8</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="pmc-release"><day>11</day><month>8</month><year>2025</year></pub-date><pub-date pub-type="collection"><year>2025</year></pub-date><volume>23</volume><elocation-id>469</elocation-id><history><date date-type="received"><day>24</day><month>1</month><year>2025</year></date><date date-type="accepted"><day>22</day><month>7</month><year>2025</year></date></history><permissions><copyright-statement>&#x000a9; The Author(s) 2025</copyright-statement><copyright-year>2025</copyright-year><license><ali:license_ref specific-use="textmining" content-type="ccbylicense">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/</ali:license_ref><license-p><bold>Open Access</bold> This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article's Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article's Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/">http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/</ext-link>.</license-p></license></permissions><abstract id="Abs1"><sec><title>Background</title><p id="Par7">Functional disorders share familial risk with internalizing disorders such as generalized anxiety disorder and depression, and are comorbid with cardiometabolic and immune-related diseases. We investigated whether functional and internalizing disorders co-aggregate with these diseases in families to gain insight into the aetiology of functional and internalizing disorders.&#x000a0;</p></sec><sec><title>Methods</title><p id="Par8">We included 166,774 subjects (aged 3&#x02013;94), from the population-based Lifelines Cohort Study, a Dutch general population cohort. We defined cases for three functional disorders (myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome; ME/CFS, fibromyalgia, and irritable bowel syndrome; IBS), two internalizing disorders (major depressive disorder; MDD and generalized anxiety disorder; GAD), cardiometabolic diseases (obesity, metabolic associated steatotic liver disease, type 2 diabetes, hypertension and cardiovascular disease) and immune-related diseases (composite measures of auto-immune disease and atopy). We used logistic regression to model the prevalence of these disorders in the general population and in participants with affected relatives. Using these prevalence estimates, we assessed familial co-aggregation with (1) recurrence risk ratios (<italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub>), and (2) familial correlations (<italic>r</italic><sub><italic>f</italic></sub>).</p></sec><sec><title>Results</title><p id="Par9">All functional and internalizing disorders co-aggregated with immune-related diseases (<italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub> range 1.06&#x02013;1.24). ME/CFS, FM, and MDD co-aggregated with most cardiometabolic diseases (<italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub> range 1.00&#x02013;1.23). MDD, fibromyalgia, and ME/CFS showed similar familial correlation patterns with both disease groups (<italic>r</italic><sub><italic>f</italic></sub> range 0.12&#x02013;0.44), while patterns of IBS and GAD were more variable.</p></sec><sec><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par10">Internalizing and functional disorders share familial risk with immune-related and cardiometabolic diseases. This suggests that risk factors relevant to immune-related and cardiometabolic diseases may also be relevant for FDs. Future studies should investigate such risk factors to identify novel treatment targets.&#x000a0;</p></sec><sec><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12916-025-04293-7.</p></sec></abstract><kwd-group xml:lang="en"><title>Keywords</title><kwd>Fibromyalgia</kwd><kwd>Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome</kwd><kwd>Irritable bowel syndrome</kwd><kwd>Aetiology</kwd><kwd>Familial co-aggregation</kwd><kwd>Cardiometabolic</kwd><kwd>Atopy</kwd><kwd>Autoimmune</kwd></kwd-group><funding-group><award-group><funding-source><institution-wrap><institution-id institution-id-type="FundRef">https://doi.org/10.13039/100000025</institution-id><institution>National Institute of Mental Health</institution></institution-wrap></funding-source><award-id>R01MH125902</award-id><award-id>R01MH125902</award-id><award-id>R01MH125902</award-id><award-id>R01MH125902</award-id><award-id>R01MH125902</award-id><award-id>R01MH125902</award-id></award-group></funding-group><custom-meta-group><custom-meta><meta-name>issue-copyright-statement</meta-name><meta-value>&#x000a9; BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2025</meta-value></custom-meta></custom-meta-group></article-meta></front><body><sec id="Sec1"><title>Background</title><p id="Par21">Functional disorders (FDs) such as fibromyalgia (FM), myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) are characterized by somatic symptoms with poorly understood aetiology. These disorders are common, affecting up to 10% of individuals in European countries [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR1">1</xref>]. They significantly impact quality of life and functioning. Despite this, there is a lack of effective treatments, likely deriving from little insight into the mechanisms underlying the development of FDs.&#x000a0;</p><p id="Par22">Current etiological models suggest a complex interplay of biological, psychological, and social factors contributing to the development of FDs. A systematic review identified alterations in multiple body systems, including the immune and cardiovascular systems, as relevant etiological factors [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR2">2</xref>]. Part of these factors is likely familial in origin, as twin studies have found that FDs are moderately heritable [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR3">3</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR5">5</xref>]. It is, however, unclear how this familial component specifically leads to the development of FDs and which mechanisms are involved. This is important to know, as mechanisms may be targeted with interventions.
</p><p id="Par23">Investigating familial co-aggregation with other classes of conditions can shed light on these mechanisms. If disorders cluster within families, this suggests that they share genetic and/or common environmental causes. Several studies found strong comorbidity, as well as familial links between FDs and internalizing disorders (IDs) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR6">6</xref>]. IDs are characterized by inwardly directed emotional distress; common IDs include major depressive disorder (MDD) and generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR7">7</xref>]. Another study found that FDs are associated with familial risk of a range of other disorders, including sleep and pain disorders and autoimmune diseases [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>].</p><p id="Par24">Other conditions, such as cardiometabolic diseases and atopy, are also significantly co-morbid with FDs, but no studies have explored familial coaggregation of FDs with those diseases. Significant comorbidity has been observed in the general population between metabolic syndrome and IBS [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR9">9</xref>], type 2 diabetes and FM [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR10">10</xref>], and cardiovascular disease and FM [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR11">11</xref>]. FDs are also associated with atopy [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR12">12</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR13">13</xref>]. These disorders each have established mechanisms, such as metabolic dysfunction, inflammation, and IgE synthesis. If there are familial links between FDs and these diseases, this may imply that similar mechanisms are also involved in the development of FDs.</p><p id="Par25">Here, in a large three-generational sample representative of the general population, we investigate familial co-aggregation of FDs with cardiometabolic and immune-related diseases. We choose to investigate these disease classes since they likely hold etiological relevance to FDs, and because of their availability in the dataset. Given the high rates of comorbidity between IDs and FDs, we compare these findings to familial co-aggregation between cardiometabolic and immune-related diseases with two common IDs (MDD and GAD). Finally, we estimate familial correlations of FDs and IDs with cardiometabolic and immune-related diseases.</p></sec><sec id="Sec2"><title>Methods</title><sec id="Sec3"><title>Study population</title><p id="Par26">We analysed data from Lifelines, which is a multi-disciplinary prospective population-based cohort study examining in a unique three-generation design the health and health-related behaviours of 167,729 persons living in the North of the Netherlands. It employs a broad range of investigative procedures in assessing the biomedical, socio-demographic, behavioural, physical, and psychological factors which contribute to the health and disease of the general population, with a special focus on multi-morbidity and complex genetics. Details on data collection and inclusion have been published elsewhere [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR14">14</xref>]. The Lifelines cohort is representative of the general population of the northern Netherlands [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR15">15</xref>].</p><p id="Par27">We used data from the first wave (1A; 2007&#x02013;2013) and its two follow-up questionnaires (1B and 1C, mean 2 and 3&#x000a0;years after inclusion, respectively), the second wave (2A; mean 4&#x000a0;years after inclusion), and the third wave (3A; mean 10.5&#x000a0;years after inclusion), its follow-up questionnaire (3B, mean 12&#x000a0;years after inclusion), and an add-on questionnaire on skin diseases [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>] (mean 9&#x000a0;years after inclusion). We used data from all participants, including children, with sufficient data to ascertain case status for at least one of the studied disorders (<italic>n</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;166,774).</p><p id="Par28">For all studied disorders and diseases, we classify participants as lifetime cases or controls, meaning that they are cases if they fulfil the case definition in at least one assessment. If they do not fulfil the case definition in any non-missing assessment, they are classified as controls. Participants who are thus cases at one assessment and controls in another are considered lifetime cases and included in the analyses as such. We applied the same logic to composite phenotypic definitions; participants were not required to have complete data on all phenotypes to be a control. If they were controls at all non-missing assessments, they were coded as controls.</p></sec><sec id="Sec4"><title>Functional disorders</title><p id="Par29">Data on FDs was collected during wave 2A and 3A through questionnaires assessing all symptom criteria, from which we derived diagnoses of ME/CFS, FM, and IBS. We used the 1994 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention criteria [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>] for ME/CFS and the 2010 American College of Rheumatology criteria [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR18">18</xref>] for FM. We used adjusted ROME III criteria [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR19">19</xref>] for IBS to align with ROME IV (recurrent abdominal pain more than one day per week for at least 6&#x000a0;months, along with two additional symptoms) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR20">20</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec5"><title>Internalizing disorders</title><p id="Par30">Data on current MDD (past 2&#x000a0;weeks) and GAD (past 6&#x000a0;months) were collected in waves 1A, 2A, and 3A using the Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR21">21</xref>], from which we ascertained diagnoses according to the DSM-IV-TR criteria [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR22">22</xref>]. Since lifetime measures of MDD and GAD were not available for many participants due to missing data, we used aggregated cross-sectional case/control status across three waves.</p></sec><sec id="Sec6"><title>Cardiometabolic phenotypes</title><p id="Par31">We defined five cardiometabolic phenotypes: obesity, type II diabetes mellitus (T2D), hypertension, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) and cardiovascular disease (CVD). These disorders are common and significantly heritable [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>]. Furthermore, they have a range of shared (e.g. oxidative stress, insulin resistance, low-grade inflammation) and unique mechanisms (e.g. renin&#x02013;angiotensin&#x02013;aldosterone system dysregulation in hypertension, beta-cell dysfunction in T2D).</p><sec id="Sec7"><title>Hypertension</title><p id="Par32">Blood pressure was measured using an automatic sphygmanometer at assessment 1A, 2A, and 3A. We defined hypertension as either systolic pressure&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;140&#x000a0;mmHg, diastolic pressure&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;90&#x000a0;mmHg in any assessment, or antihypertensive use at 1A.</p></sec><sec id="Sec8"><title>Obesity</title><p id="Par33">Anthropometry was performed when participants visited the research centres at waves 1A, 2A, and 3A. We defined obesity according to the WHO definition [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR24">24</xref>], which is a BMI&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;30 for adults and a BMI of 2 standard deviations above the WHO reference median for participants aged below 20.</p></sec><sec id="Sec9"><title>Metabolic associated steatotic liver disease</title><p id="Par34">MASLD is a chronic disease characterized by excessive fat accumulation in the liver in the absence of secondary causes such as significant alcohol consumption. At wave 1A, &#x003b3;-glutamyltransferase and triglycerides were measured in blood in a subset of participants (<italic>N</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;58,466). Together with anthropometric data, we calculated the fatty liver index as described elsewhere [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR25">25</xref>]. We defined MASLD as a fatty liver index&#x02009;&#x02265;&#x02009;60.</p></sec><sec id="Sec10"><title>Type II diabetes mellitus</title><p id="Par35">Since type 1 diabetes (T1D) and T2D have a distinct pathophysiology (autoimmune vs insulin resistance), we distinguished between these two phenotypes by combining multiple types of relevant data. Generally, we defined T2D based on self-report items, glycaemic blood abnormalities, or the use of glucose-lowering drugs, with exclusion criteria for possible T1D based on insulin use and age at onset. Not all criteria could be applied in all waves, and in those, we used adapted criteria. Detailed criteria are provided in Additional file 1: Supplementary Methods [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR16">16</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR26">26</xref>&#x02013;<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR33">33</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec11"><title>Cardiovascular disease</title><p id="Par36">We defined cardiovascular disease (CVD) as a composite measure of heart failure, myocardial infarction, coronary artery bypass surgery or percutaneous coronary intervention, stroke, and intermittent claudication. We used self-report items, medication, and electrocardiography data (Additional file 1: Supplementary Methods). Our definition corresponds to that used in a previous paper in Lifelines [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR23">23</xref>], but with the addition of intermittent claudication and incorporating data across all assessments.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec12"><title>Immune-related diseases</title><p id="Par37">We assessed two composite phenotypes of immune-related diseases, consisting of autoimmune diseases and atopy. Both involve immune dysregulation but have distinct pathophysiologies, as atopy is characterized by IgE-mediated hypersensitivity to external allergens whereas autoimmune diseases involve loss of immune tolerance causing lymphocytes to target self-antigens.</p><sec id="Sec13"><title>Autoimmune disease</title><p id="Par38">Autoimmune diseases have a strong shared genetic component, but are individually relatively rare [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR34">34</xref>]. To increase power, we defined autoimmune disease as a composite measure of multiple autoimmune diseases (T1D, rheumatoid arthritis, autoimmune thyroid disease, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, celiac disease, Crohn&#x02019;s disease or ulcerative colitis). We used a combination of self-reported, laboratory, and medication data (Additional file 1: Supplementary Methods).</p></sec><sec id="Sec14"><title>Atopy</title><p id="Par39">Data on atopic diseases were collected in multiple questionnaires, with separate questionnaires for children and adults. We defined atopy as food allergy [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR29">29</xref>], asthma or eczema, based on self-report items and supported by drugs where possible (Additional file 1: Supplementary Methods).</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec15"><title>Pedigree data</title><p id="Par40">Pedigree data in Lifelines is based on information from municipal registries, self-reported familial relationships from participants, and validated with molecular genetic data if these data were available (around <italic>N</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;80,000 participants). Nearly two-thirds of participants (<italic>N</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;106,282, 63.7%) had at least one first-degree relative (parent, sibling, child) in the dataset, with a median of two first-degree relatives in participants with at least one first-degree relative. A minority of participants (<italic>N</italic>&#x02009;=&#x02009;33,691, 20.2%) had at least one second-degree relative (half-sibling, grandparent, grandchild, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew) in the dataset, with a median of two second-degree relatives in participants with at least one second-degree relative.</p><p id="Par41">For each participant, we used pedigree data to determine if they had a first- or second-degree relative affected by the relevant disorders. We did not use data provided by the proband on their family members; thus, only individuals with a relative in the dataset with data on the studied disorders had the possibility of having an affected relative. Furthermore, individuals with relatives in the dataset may be dissimilar in other ways compared to the general population. We therefore included the number of first- and second-degree relatives in the dataset with data on the relevant studied disorder for each participant as covariates for the subsequent analyses with that disorder.</p></sec><sec id="Sec16"><title>Demographics</title><p id="Par42">We included age and sex as covariates in the analyses. Sex in Lifelines is recorded from the Dutch Personal Records Database. We defined age separately for cases and controls of each phenotype. For cases, age was defined as the age at which participants first satisfied the case definition. For controls, it was defined as the last age at which participants had relevant data available. This accounts for some participants not having relevant data at some waves of data collection, for instance due to dropout or death.</p></sec><sec id="Sec17"><title>Statistics</title><p id="Par43">We estimated recurrence risk ratios (<italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub>) to quantify familial co-aggregation [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR35">35</xref>]. For each pair of disorders, <italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub> is the ratio between the prevalence of one disorder in individuals with an affected first-degree relative divided by the general population prevalence. For example, in the MDD-MASLD pair, we estimated the ratio of MDD prevalence in individuals with a first-degree relative with MASLD to MDD prevalence in the general population, and vice versa. A ratio above 1 indicates shared familial risk.</p><p id="Par44">We estimated prevalences using logistic regression models, with exposure of having an affected first-degree relative and adjusted for age, age<sup>2</sup> (to account for non-linear prevalence patterns by age), sex and number of first-degree relatives in the dataset. We calculate plug-in prevalence estimates as average adjusted predictions across the entire sample, and in individuals with an affected first-degree relative. We accounted for correlated measurements within families using robust standard errors with a sandwich estimator. We calculated <italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub> as the simple ratio between prevalences, and we used the Delta method [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>] to calculate the standard error of <italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub> assuming independence between the numerator and denominator.</p><p id="Par45">Next, we estimated familial correlations (<italic>r</italic><sub><italic>f</italic></sub>), which measure the shared variance of traits attributable to familial factors, which include both genetic and common environmental effects. Since our analysis uses relatives instead of twins, our estimates capture combined genetic and common environmental causes instead of strictly genetic causes [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR36">36</xref>].</p><p id="Par46">We estimated familial correlations using the Wray &#x00026; Gottesman method [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR37">37</xref>], which is based on the liability threshold model, where disease status is determined by an underlying normally distributed liability [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR38">38</xref>]. The estimation depends on prevalence estimates in the general population and in individuals with affected first-degree relatives, as well as with affected second-degree relatives. We adjusted both models for the number of first- or second-degree relatives in the dataset with data on the phenotype. Details and equations are provided in Additional file 1: Supplementary Methods, while an example R script for estimating marginalized prevalences, recurrence risk ratios, and familial correlations is also provided (Additional file 2).</p></sec><sec id="Sec18"><title>Preregistration, inference criteria and reporting</title><p id="Par47">We preregistered our analysis plan (<ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://osf.io/kj7dx">https://osf.io/kj7dx</ext-link>) with subsequent modifications to phenotype definitions and multiple testing corrections. Changes are detailed in Additional file 1: Supplementary Methods.</p><p id="Par48">We tested directional hypotheses for both recurrence risk ratios (H0: <italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub>&#x02009;=&#x02009;1, H1: <italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub>&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;1) and for familial correlations (H0: <italic>r</italic><sub><italic>f</italic></sub>&#x02009;=&#x02009;0, H1: <italic>r</italic><sub><italic>f</italic></sub>&#x02009;&#x0003e;&#x02009;0). Because we do not expect any effect in the other direction, we evaluated one-sided tests. These amounted to a total of 105 tests. Since these tests are not independent, and our aim is exploratory (to identify novel etiological associations) controlling the family-wise error rate would be too conservative. We controlled the false discovery rate at 0.05 across all tests using the Benjamini&#x02013;Hochberg procedure [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR39">39</xref>]. We reported estimates with only the lower bounds of one-sided 95% confidence intervals (CIs), as the upper bound is infinite for <italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub><italic>s</italic> and 1 for r<sub>f</sub>s and not informative. This is the case because the CI in this case is defined by only a lower critical region, and the sampling distribution's probability density extends infinitely in the positive direction (but correlations have a theoretical maximum value of 1) [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR30">30</xref>].</p></sec><sec id="Sec19"><title>Sensitivity analysis</title><p id="Par49">We conducted a sensitivity analysis to assess if our results were influenced by misclassification of FDs. We excluded participants that also reported having conditions that may present with similar symptoms or are mentioned as exclusionary in diagnostic guidelines [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR17">17</xref>]. These were multiple sclerosis, dementia, schizophrenia, or an eating disorder for ME/CFS; ulcerative colitis, Crohn&#x02019;s disease, or coeliac disease for IBS; rheumatoid arthritis for FM; and hepatitis, cancer, or heart failure for all FDs.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec20"><title>Results</title><p id="Par50">We included data of 166,774 participants that had data available on at least one disorder (Table&#x000a0;<xref rid="Tab1" ref-type="table">1</xref>). More than half (57.9%) of participants were female. Mean age at first included assessment was 42.5&#x000a0;years (standard deviation 15.7), with a wide age range (3&#x02013;93). Over half of participants (63.7%) had a first-degree relative in the dataset, while 20.2% had a second-degree relative in the dataset.
<table-wrap id="Tab1"><label>Table&#x000a0;1</label><caption><p>Characteristics of study population</p></caption><table frame="hsides" rules="groups"><thead><tr><th align="left"><bold><italic>N</italic></bold></th><th align="left">166,774</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="left"><bold>Mean age (SD)</bold></td><td align="left">42.42 (15.59)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>Age range</bold></td><td align="left">3&#x02013;94</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>Male sex (%)</bold></td><td align="left">70,151 (42.1%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>First-degree relative in dataset (%)</bold></td><td align="left">106,282 (63.7%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>Second-degree relative in dataset (%)</bold></td><td align="left">33,691 (20.2%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>Median first-degree relatives in dataset* (IQR)</bold></td><td align="left">2 (1&#x02013;3)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>Median second-degree relatives in dataset* (IQR)</bold></td><td align="left">2 (1&#x02013;3)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>Hypertension</bold></td><td align="left">62,033 (38.1%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>CVD</bold></td><td align="left">7862 (5.1%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>T2D</bold></td><td align="left">7966 (5.4%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>Obesity</bold></td><td align="left">34,525 (20.9%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>MASLD</bold></td><td align="left">13,167 (22.5%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>Autoimmune disease</bold></td><td align="left">15,367 (9.9%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>Atopy</bold></td><td align="left">26,569 (16.3%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>MDD</bold></td><td align="left">7266 (4.8%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>GAD</bold></td><td align="left">13,868 (9.1%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>FM</bold></td><td align="left">7982 (8.2%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>ME/CFS</bold></td><td align="left">4866 (4.7%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>IBS</bold></td><td align="left">7703 (7.5%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>FM after exclusion</bold></td><td align="left">6340 (6.6%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>ME/CFS after exclusion</bold></td><td align="left">3977 (3.9%)</td></tr><tr><td align="left"><bold>IBS after exclusion</bold></td><td align="left">6427 (6.3%)</td></tr></tbody></table><table-wrap-foot><p>*In participants who had at least one relative in the dataset. Abbreviations: <italic>SD</italic> standard deviation, <italic>IQR</italic> interquartile range, <italic>MASLD</italic> metabolic associated steatotic liver disease, <italic>T2D</italic> type 2 diabetes, <italic>CVD</italic> cardiovascular disease, <italic>ME/CFS</italic> myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome, <italic>FM</italic> fibromyalgia, <italic>IBS</italic> irritable bowel syndrome, <italic>MDD</italic> major depressive disorder, <italic>GAD</italic> generalized anxiety disorder</p></table-wrap-foot></table-wrap></p><sec id="Sec21"><title>Recurrence risk ratios</title><p id="Par51">We estimated recurrence risk ratios to examine patterns of familial co-aggregation between IDs/FDs and cardiometabolic and immune-related diseases (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig1" ref-type="fig">1</xref>, Additional file 3: Table S2).&#x000a0;<fig id="Fig1"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;1</label><caption><p>Displayed are recurrence risk ratios (<italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub>) and the lower bound of one-sided 95% confidence intervals for the ratio <bold>A</bold> between prevalences of IDs/FDs (name and sample size above plot) in the general population and in individuals with a first-degree relative affected by cardiometabolic (green) or immune-related diseases (orange), and <bold>B</bold> between prevalences of cardiometabolic/immune-related diseases in the general population and in individuals with a first-degree relative affected by an FD (green) or ID (orange). Stars denote statistical significance at false discovery rate-adjusted <italic>p</italic>-value&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05. Abbreviations: FDR, first-degree relative; MASLD, metabolic associated steatotic liver disease; T2D, type 2 diabetes; CVD, cardiovascular disease; ME/CFS, myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome; FM, fibromyalgia; IBS, irritable bowel syndrome; MDD, major depressive disorder; GAD, generalized anxiety disorder</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4293_Fig1_HTML" id="MO1"/></fig></p><p id="Par52">We found significant familial co-aggregation between IDs/FDs and cardiometabolic diseases, but with differences between specific IDs and FDs. Estimates of familial co-aggregation with cardiometabolic disorders were broadly similar for MDD, FM, and ME/CFS. Having a first-degree relative with obesity or MASLD was associated with increased prevalence of MDD, FM, and ME/CFS, and vice versa (<italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub> range 1.13&#x02013;1.23). Patterns were similar for co-aggregation between MDD, ME/CFS, and FM with CVD and T2D (<italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub> range 1.11&#x02013;1.21). Hypertension co-aggregated in families with all IDs/FDs (<italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub> range 1.01&#x02013;1.10), except for hypertension in a first-degree relative and MDD (<italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub> 1.00, lower 95% CI 0.95).</p><p id="Par53">We also found significant familial co-aggregation between IDs/FDs and immune-related diseases. Atopy co-aggregated strongest with FDs and GAD (<italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub> range 1.08&#x02013;1.24). For MDD and atopy, co-aggregation was small, while the recurrence risk of MDD for atopy in a first-degree relative was not significant (<italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub>&#x02009;=&#x02009;1.06, lower 95% CI 1.00). Autoimmune disease was associated with increased prevalence of all IDs and FDs (<italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub> range 1.13&#x02013;1.16), while having a first-degree relative with an ID or FD was associated with increased prevalence of autoimmune disease (<italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub> range 1.10&#x02013;1.17).</p><p id="Par54">For IBS and GAD, we observed less familial co-aggregation with cardiometabolic diseases. Only CVD in a first-degree relative was associated with increased prevalence of IBS (<italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub> 1.12; lower 95% CI 1.03), while only obesity in a first-degree relative was associated with the prevalence of GAD (<italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub> 1.05; lower 95% CI 1.01). However, having a first-degree relative with IBS was associated with increased prevalence of hypertension, CVD, and obesity (<italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub><italic>s</italic> range 1.04&#x02013;1.10), but not T2D or MASLD. Having GAD in a first-degree relative was associated with increased prevalence of all cardiometabolic disorders except for MASLD (<italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub> range 1.06&#x02013;1.13).</p></sec><sec id="Sec22"><title>Familial correlations</title><p id="Par55">We found significant positive familial correlations between most IDs/FDs and cardiometabolic and immune-related disorders (Fig.&#x000a0;<xref rid="Fig2" ref-type="fig">2</xref>, Additional file 3: Table S3). ME/CFS, FM, and MDD had significant small to moderate familial correlations with all cardiometabolic and immune-related disorders (<italic>r</italic><sub><italic>f</italic></sub> range 0.16&#x02013;0.44). All IDs and FDs had small to moderate familial correlations with both atopy and autoimmune disease (<italic>r</italic><sub><italic>f</italic></sub> range 0.12&#x02013;0.32). For IBS, we found significant familial correlations with hypertension, T2D, and CVD (<italic>r</italic><sub><italic>f</italic></sub> range 0.11&#x02013;0.34), but not with obesity or MASLD. For GAD, we found significant familial correlations with all cardiometabolic disorders except for MASLD (<italic>r</italic><sub><italic>f</italic></sub> range 0.13&#x02013;0.29).<fig id="Fig2"><label>Fig.&#x000a0;2</label><caption><p>Displayed are familial correlations (<italic>r</italic><sub><italic>f</italic></sub>) with the lower bound of one-sided 95% confidence intervals between IDs/FDs (above plot) and cardiometabolic (green) and immune-related diseases (orange). Stars denote statistical significance at false discovery rate-adjusted <italic>p</italic>-value&#x02009;&#x0003c;&#x02009;0.05. Abbreviations: MASLD, metabolic associated steatotic liver disease; T2D, type 2 diabetes; CVD, cardiovascular disease; ME/CFS, myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome; FM, fibromyalgia; IBS, irritable bowel syndrome; MDD, major depressive disorder; GAD, generalized anxiety disorder</p></caption><graphic xlink:href="12916_2025_4293_Fig2_HTML" id="MO2"/></fig></p></sec><sec id="Sec23"><title>Sensitivity analysis</title><p id="Par56">We conducted a sensitivity analysis to account for potential misclassification (Additional file 1: Figs. S1&#x02013;2. Fig. S1&#x02014;Recurrence risk ratios. Fig. S2&#x02014;Familial correlations; Additional file 3: Tables S4&#x02013;5). Results were similar; however, with more uncertainty for some recurrence risk ratios. The confidence interval for having a first-degree relative with ME/CFS or IBS and the prevalence of autoimmune disease was wider and no longer significant, while having ME/CFS in a first-degree relative was no longer significantly associated with increased prevalence of T2D. However, having a first-degree relative with autoimmune disease or with T2D was robustly associated with increased prevalence of all FDs. Familial correlation patterns were similar.</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec24"><title>Discussion</title><p id="Par57">In this large population-based study, we found robust familial co-aggregation between FDs/IDs and two major disease groups. First, we found significant familial co-aggregation between all studied FDs/IDs and immune-related diseases. This is supported by increased prevalence of IDs and FDs in individuals with a first-degree relative with autoimmune disease or atopy, an increased prevalence of autoimmune disease and atopy in those with a first-degree relative with an ID or FD, and significant familial correlations between IDs/FDs and both atopy and autoimmune disease. Second, we also found significant familial co-aggregation of IDs/FDs and cardiometabolic diseases, with the most robust co-aggregation with ME/CFS, FM and MDD. This is indicated by an increased prevalence of MDD, FM and ME/CFS in those with a first-degree relative with obesity, MASLD, T2D and CVD, an increased prevalence of cardiometabolic diseases in individuals with a first-degree relative with MDD, FM and ME/CFS, and significant familial correlations between MDD, ME/CFS and FM with all studied cardiometabolic diseases.</p><sec id="Sec25"><title>Comparison with previous studies</title><p id="Par58">For MDD and GAD, which have received considerably more research interest than FDs, our results agree with previous studies. Register-based studies found familial co-aggregation between MDD/GAD and autoimmune diseases [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR40">40</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR41">41</xref>] and atopy [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR42">42</xref>], and between MDD and cardiometabolic diseases [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR43">43</xref>]. Also, molecular genetic data suggests that shared genetics explains part of this shared familial risk. Significant genetic correlations have been observed between anxiety and several immune-related diseases [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR44">44</xref>], MDD and hypothyroidism [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR45">45</xref>], and MDD and several cardiometabolic diseases [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR46">46</xref>]. Furthermore, both genetic correlation and familial co-aggregation have been found between stress-related disorders (which are often comorbid with IDs and FDs) and autoimmune diseases [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR47">47</xref>].</p><p id="Par59">For FDs, much less comparable studies have been performed. One prior study investigated familial genetic risk scores of autoimmune diseases in FDs [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR8">8</xref>]. It found higher estimates of familial genetic risk of autoimmune diseases in FM, IBS, and ME/CFS compared to MDD. This is somewhat different from our findings, where the degree of familial co-aggregation with autoimmune diseases was similar across all FDs and IDs, but we did not test for differences between FDs and IDs. The different findings could also derive from a higher severity of FM in its sample, since its prevalence of FM based on registry data was much lower (0.4%) compared to that in our study (8.2%).</p><p id="Par60">In a genome-wide association study for IBS, no significant genetic correlations were found between IBS and immune-related diseases, while we found significant familial co-aggregation and familial correlations between IBS and immune-related diseases [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR48">48</xref>]. This study, however, excluded patients with gastrointestinal autoimmune diseases from the IBS disease definition, which could attenuate an autoimmune genetic signal. Another explanation for the discrepancy could be that, for IBS, the observed familial association we found primarily derives from shared common environmental causes. However, another genome-wide association study for IBS [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR49">49</xref>] found significant genetic correlations of IBS with cardiovascular diseases, which suggests that the shared familial risk that we identified partly derives from genetic factors.</p><p id="Par61">We are unable to directly compare prevalence rates between our study and other studies. This is because we used heterogeneous aggregated prevalences to maximize case finding. Although prevalence rates are important in many epidemiological studies, the prevalences are less important for the research questions we aim to answer. This is because our target of inference is a ratio of prevalences (<italic>and both numerator and denominator are similarly aggregated</italic>), and not the prevalences themselves.</p></sec><sec id="Sec26"><title>Interpretation and implications</title><p id="Par62">Our findings suggest that IDs and FDs may share genetic and/or common environmental risk factors with immune-related and cardiometabolic diseases. These risk factors could, for example, include shared genes, other biological factors, environmental exposures, or lifestyle factors. For MDD, there is some mechanistic evidence for the involvement of such risk factors, and they are relevant to the understanding and treatment of MDD. These include biological factors such as leptin/insulin dysregulation [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR50">50</xref>], oxidative stress [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR51">51</xref>] and gut dysbiosis [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR52">52</xref>], but also lifestyle factors such as diet [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR53">53</xref>] and physical activity [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR54">54</xref>]. Our findings suggest that similar risk factors could be identified for FDs.</p><p id="Par63">It is possible that such risk factors are more important in subgroups of individuals with FDs, compared to FDs as a whole. The familial effects we identified at the group level were small to moderate. Furthermore, there is heterogeneity in FDs [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR55">55</xref>, <xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR56">56</xref>]. Possibly, subtypes of FDs could be identified, in which there is an important role of risk factors shared with cardiometabolic and immune-related diseases. Similarly, for MDD there is evidence for an immunometabolic subtype [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR46">46</xref>]. Future studies may be able to identify such subgroups, for instance by investigating FD patients with a high genetic risk of cardiometabolic or immune-related diseases through molecular genetic data, or through data on relatives. Furthermore, data such as comorbid diseases, or exposure to an infectious trigger, may be used to identify homogeneous subgroups, for instance using factor mixture modelling [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR57">57</xref>].</p><p id="Par64">A similar point applies to the aggregate autoimmune diseases phenotype. We included all autoimmune diseases available in the dataset to maximize power, which makes it unclear if specific autoimmune diseases have a stronger association than others. Some autoimmune diseases are more prevalent than others; they may have a stronger impact on the observed familial co-aggregation. However, less common autoimmune diseases can also still make relatively large contributions in case of high heritability. Future studies may be able to identify specific roles of immune dysregulation in the aetiology of IDs/FDs.</p><p id="Par65">Our study does not provide insight into specific genetic or environmental causal pathways underlying the observed familial associations. For instance, cardiovascular disease in a parent may cause MDD in offspring through shared genetic risk but also through stressful life experiences, while a shared unhealthy lifestyle may contribute to major depression in the parent and cardiovascular disease in the offspring, or FDs may prompt sedentary behaviour leading to obesity in offspring. Future studies using methods such as twin-sibling modelling, molecular genetic studies, or bidirectional causal modelling [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR58">58</xref>], and studies taking into account the temporal order of disease onsets may give insight into causal mechanisms.</p><p id="Par66">Our findings have implications for research and clinical practice. Our finding of shared familial risk factors between IDs/FDs and cardiometabolic and immune-related diseases suggests new directions for research into the aetiology of FDs, for instance, in investigating shared genetic risk factors, but also shared family environmental risk factors. A further understanding of these familial risk factors will be helpful for clinicians in explaining an FD diagnosis to patients.</p><p id="Par67">Second, we found similarities but also differences in patterns of familial co-aggregation between FDs and IDs. Previous studies have suggested that multiple individual FD diagnoses can be captured under a single umbrella diagnosis, such as functional somatic syndrome [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR59">59</xref>] or bodily distress syndrome [<xref ref-type="bibr" rid="CR60">60</xref>]. Our study both supports and opposes this approach, as we found that the three types of FDs have similar familial associations with immune-related diseases but dissimilar associations with cardiometabolic diseases.</p><p id="Par68">Third, our findings suggest that a broad family history inquiring into IDs, FDs, cardiometabolic and immune-related diseases may be a relevant part of the clinical approach to FDs and IDs. This could, for instance, be relevant for understanding etiological contributions in an individual patient, but also for identifying individuals at risk of cardiometabolic and immune-related diseases in the ID/FD patient population.</p></sec><sec id="Sec27"><title>Strengths and limitations</title><p id="Par69">Strengths of our study include the use of a large population-based cohort and the use of diagnostic criteria for defining FDs and IDs. This reduces the impact of diagnostic biases and help-seeking behaviour compared to hospital and registry data and self-reported diagnoses of FDs. Furthermore, the family-based design prevents the need to rely on unreliable information from probands about their relatives.</p><p id="Par70">We note however also some limitations. First, some of the cardiometabolic and immune-related phenotypes depend on aggregated data with variable quality and missingness rates. This could cause that some cases for these diseases might be classified as controls, if they only participated in assessments in which they did not fulfil case definitions. This would cause an underestimation of prevalences in both the general population and in individuals with affected relatives; therefore not biasing estimates in any direction, but it would decrease power. There is furthermore likely some heterogeneity due to the aggregation, meaning that the familial effects we found are driven by some of the aggregated diseases.</p><p id="Par71">Another source of potential bias is help-seeking bias, which is relevant for measures that depend on self-reported doctor diagnoses. Since individuals with FDs may be more likely to present to a clinician and receive diagnostic interventions, these individuals will be more likely to receive additional diagnoses&#x02014;leading to comorbidity and familial co-aggregation. We minimized the impact of this bias by ascertaining FDs based on symptom questionnaires and not diagnoses, and by ascertaining most cardiometabolic and immune-related diseases through measures that are not self-reported doctor diagnoses.</p><p id="Par72">Furthermore, many participants did not have any relatives in the dataset. These are assumed to not have an affected relative and therefore counted only as part of the general population. However, if they do have a relative affected by an ID/FD or cardiometabolic/immune-related disease (and for some subjects this is likely since these are common disorders), any increase in risk that they have for the disease due to their affected relative will only increase the estimated prevalence in the general population, leading to an underestimation of <italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub>. We addressed this limitation by including the number of relatives in the analyses as a covariate.</p><p id="Par73">Last, our uncertainty estimates of <italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub> are likely too conservative. This is due to our calculation of the standard error of <italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub>, which assumes that the prevalence in the general population and in individuals with an affected relative are independent. However, this is not the case, since individuals with affected relatives are also part of the general population. This does not bias the estimated <italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub>, but it increases the width of confidence intervals and thus increases the chance of a false negative finding. We tested the impact of this limitation by calculating a bootstrap confidence interval for one <italic>&#x003bb;</italic><sub><italic>R</italic></sub>, which only provided marginally smaller confidence intervals; but this is a computationally expensive procedure. Therefore, we decided to only report confidence intervals calculated using the Delta method.&#x000a0;</p></sec></sec><sec id="Sec28"><title>Conclusions</title><p id="Par74">Our study reveals shared familial risk between FDs/IDs and major disease groups. We found that MDD, ME/CFS, and FM robustly share familial risk with cardiometabolic diseases, while all studied IDs and FDs have familial links with immune-related diseases. Our findings suggest that the aetiology of FDs may include risk factors shared with common somatic diseases, which could be identified in future studies.</p></sec><sec id="Sec32" sec-type="supplementary-material"><title>Supplementary Information</title><p>
<supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM1"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4293_MOESM1_ESM.docx"><caption><p>Additional file 1: Supplementary Methods and Figures. This file contains supplementary methods and figures as referenced in the text.</p></caption></media></supplementary-material><supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM2"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4293_MOESM2_ESM.zip"><caption><p>Additional file 2. This file contains an example R script for estimating marginalized prevalences, recurrence risk ratios and familial correlations. This is identical to the script we used, but for a single phenotype pair to prevent redundancy.</p></caption></media></supplementary-material><supplementary-material content-type="local-data" id="MOESM3"><media xlink:href="12916_2025_4293_MOESM3_ESM.xls"><caption><p>Additional file 3. This file contains supplementary tables as referenced in the text.</p></caption></media></supplementary-material></p></sec></body><back><glossary><title>Abbreviations</title><def-list><def-item><term>ID</term><def><p id="Par11">Internalizing disorder</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>FD</term><def><p id="Par12">Functional disorder</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MASLD</term><def><p id="Par13">Metabolic associated steatotic liver disease</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>T2D</term><def><p id="Par14">Type 2 diabetes</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>CVD</term><def><p id="Par15">Cardiovascular disease</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>ME/CFS</term><def><p id="Par16">Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>FM</term><def><p id="Par17">Fibromyalgia</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>IBS</term><def><p id="Par18">Irritable bowel syndrome</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>MDD</term><def><p id="Par19">Major depressive disorder</p></def></def-item><def-item><term>GAD</term><def><p id="Par20">Generalized anxiety disorder</p></def></def-item></def-list></glossary><fn-group><fn><p><bold>Publisher&#x02019;s Note</bold></p><p>Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.</p></fn></fn-group><ack><title>Acknowledgements
</title><p>We thank the members of the Pathways of Functional and Internalizing Disorders (PATHFINDER) consortium for their contributions to this project. The authors also wish to acknowledge the services of the Lifelines Cohort Study, the contributing research centres delivering data to Lifelines, and all the study participants. We furthermore thank dr. M W Masselink for sharing his insights in open science and hypothesis testing.</p></ack><notes notes-type="author-contribution"><title>Authors&#x02019; contributions</title><p>ODS analysed the data and wrote the draft manuscript. YZ, MB, SvO and HS contributed to the methodology. HS, IMN, KK, JGMR and HMvL edited and reviewed the manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.</p></notes><notes notes-type="funding-information"><title>Funding</title><p>This project was supported by NIMH grant R01MH125902. The Lifelines&#x000a0;initiative has been made possible by subsidy from the Dutch Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport, the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs, the University Medical Center Groningen (UMCG), Groningen University, and the Provinces in the North of the Netherlands (Drenthe, Friesland, Groningen).</p></notes><notes notes-type="data-availability"><title>Data availability
</title><p>Data may be obtained from a third party, Lifelines (14), and are not publicly available. Researchers can apply to use the Lifelines data used in this study. More information about how to request Lifelines data and the conditions of use can be found on their website (<ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://www.lifelines.nl/researcher/how-to-apply">https://www.lifelines.nl/researcher/how-to-apply</ext-link>). An example of the R code used in this study is included in Additional file 2.</p></notes><notes><title>Declaration</title><notes id="FPar1"><title>Ethics approval and consent to participate</title><p id="Par75">The Lifelines protocol has been approved by the UMCG Medical Ethical Committee under number 2007/152.&#x000a0;All Lifelines participants consented to participate and signed an informed consent form.</p></notes><notes id="FPar2"><title>Consent for publication</title><p id="Par76">Not applicable. This manuscript does not contain any individual person&#x02019;s data in any form.</p></notes><notes id="FPar3" notes-type="COI-statement"><title>Competing interests
</title><p id="Par77">The authors declare no competing interests.</p></notes></notes><ref-list id="Bib1"><title>References
</title><ref id="CR1"><label>1.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Rometsch C, Mansueto G, Maas Genannt Bermpohl F, Martin A, Cosci F. Prevalence of functional disorders across Europe: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Eur J Epidemiol. 2024;1&#x02013;16.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR2"><label>2.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Kleinst&#x000e4;uber M, Schr&#x000f6;der A, Daehler S, Pallesen KJ, Rask CU, Sanyer M, et al. Aetiological understanding of fibromyalgia, irritable bowel syndrome, chronic fatigue syndrome and classificatory analogues: a systematic umbrella review. Clin Psychol Eur. 2023;5(3).</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR3"><label>3.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR3" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Svedberg</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Johansson</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Wallander</surname><given-names>MA</given-names></name><name><surname>Pedersen</surname><given-names>NL</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>No evidence of sex differences in heritability of irritable bowel syndrome in Swedish twins</article-title><source>Twin Res Hum Genet</source><year>2008</year><volume>11</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>197</fpage><lpage>203</lpage><?supplied-pmid 18361721?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18361721</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR3" publication-type="journal">Svedberg P, Johansson S, Wallander MA, Pedersen NL. No evidence of sex differences in heritability of irritable bowel syndrome in Swedish twins. Twin Res Hum Genet. 2008;11(2):197&#x02013;203.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">18361721</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR4"><label>4.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR4" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Buchwald</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Herrell</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Ashton</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Belcourt</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Schmaling</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Sullivan</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>A twin study of chronic fatigue</article-title><source>Psychosom Med</source><year>2001</year><volume>63</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>936</fpage><lpage>943</lpage><?supplied-pmid 11719632?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">11719632</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR4" publication-type="journal">Buchwald D, Herrell R, Ashton S, Belcourt M, Schmaling K, Sullivan P, et al. A twin study of chronic fatigue. Psychosom Med. 2001;63(6):936&#x02013;43.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">11719632</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR5"><label>5.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR5" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Magnusson</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Turkiewicz</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Ryd&#x000e9;n</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Englund</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Genetic Influence on Osteoarthritis Versus Other Rheumatic Diseases</article-title><source>Arthritis Rheumatol</source><year>2024</year><volume>76</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>206</fpage><lpage>215</lpage><?supplied-pmid 37691153?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37691153</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR5" publication-type="journal">Magnusson K, Turkiewicz A, Ryd&#x000e9;n M, Englund M. Genetic Influence on Osteoarthritis Versus Other Rheumatic Diseases. Arthritis Rheumatol. 2024;76(2):206&#x02013;15.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37691153</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR6"><label>6.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR6" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bos</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Monden</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Wray</surname><given-names>NR</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhou</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Kendler</surname><given-names>KS</given-names></name><name><surname>Rosmalen</surname><given-names>JG</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Familial coaggregation and shared familiality of functional and internalizing disorders in the Lifelines cohort</article-title><source>Psychol Med</source><year>2025</year><volume>55</volume><fpage>e126</fpage><?supplied-pmid 40313134?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">40313134</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR6" publication-type="journal">Bos M, Monden R, Wray NR, Zhou Y, Kendler KS, Rosmalen JG, et al. Familial coaggregation and shared familiality of functional and internalizing disorders in the Lifelines cohort. Psychol Med. 2025;55: e126.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">40313134</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR7"><label>7.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR7" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Krueger</surname><given-names>RF</given-names></name><name><surname>Markon</surname><given-names>KE</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Reinterpreting comorbidity: A model-based approach to understanding and classifying psychopathology</article-title><source>Annu Rev Clin Psychol</source><year>2006</year><volume>2</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>111</fpage><lpage>133</lpage><?supplied-pmid 17716066?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17716066</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR7" publication-type="journal">Krueger RF, Markon KE. Reinterpreting comorbidity: A model-based approach to understanding and classifying psychopathology. Annu Rev Clin Psychol. 2006;2(1):111&#x02013;33.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">17716066</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR8"><label>8.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR8" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kendler</surname><given-names>KS</given-names></name><name><surname>Rosmalen</surname><given-names>JG</given-names></name><name><surname>Ohlsson</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Sundquist</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Sundquist</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>A distinctive profile of family genetic risk scores in a Swedish national sample of cases of fibromyalgia, irritable bowel syndrome, and chronic fatigue syndrome compared to rheumatoid arthritis and major depression</article-title><source>Psychol Med</source><year>2023</year><volume>53</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>3879</fpage><lpage>3886</lpage><?supplied-pmid 35354508?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35354508</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR8" publication-type="journal">Kendler KS, Rosmalen JG, Ohlsson H, Sundquist J, Sundquist K. A distinctive profile of family genetic risk scores in a Swedish national sample of cases of fibromyalgia, irritable bowel syndrome, and chronic fatigue syndrome compared to rheumatoid arthritis and major depression. Psychol Med. 2023;53(9):3879&#x02013;86.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35354508</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR9"><label>9.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR9" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Guo</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Niu</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Momma</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Kobayashi</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Chujo</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Otomo</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Irritable bowel syndrome is positively related to metabolic syndrome: a population-based cross-sectional study</article-title><source>PLoS ONE</source><year>2014</year><volume>9</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>e112289</fpage><?supplied-pmid 25383869?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25383869</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR9" publication-type="journal">Guo Y, Niu K, Momma H, Kobayashi Y, Chujo M, Otomo A, et al. Irritable bowel syndrome is positively related to metabolic syndrome: a population-based cross-sectional study. PLoS ONE. 2014;9(11): e112289.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25383869</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR10"><label>10.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR10" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lichtenstein</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Tiosano</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Comaneshter</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Amital</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Cohen</surname><given-names>AD</given-names></name><name><surname>Amital</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Cross-sectional analysis of the associations between fibromyalgia and diabetes mellitus</article-title><source>Reumatologia/Rheumatology</source><year>2018</year><volume>56</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>275</fpage><lpage>278</lpage><?supplied-pmid 30505007?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30505007</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR10" publication-type="journal">Lichtenstein A, Tiosano S, Comaneshter D, Amital H, Cohen AD, Amital D. Cross-sectional analysis of the associations between fibromyalgia and diabetes mellitus. Reumatologia/Rheumatology. 2018;56(5):275&#x02013;8.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30505007</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR11"><label>11.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR11" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Su</surname><given-names>CH</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>JH</given-names></name><name><surname>Lan</surname><given-names>JL</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>YC</given-names></name><name><surname>Tseng</surname><given-names>CH</given-names></name><name><surname>Hsu</surname><given-names>CY</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Increased risk of coronary heart disease in patients with primary fibromyalgia and those with concomitant comorbidity&#x02014;a Taiwanese population-based cohort study</article-title><source>PLoS ONE</source><year>2015</year><volume>10</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>e0137137</fpage><?supplied-pmid 26366998?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26366998</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR11" publication-type="journal">Su CH, Chen JH, Lan JL, Wang YC, Tseng CH, Hsu CY, et al. Increased risk of coronary heart disease in patients with primary fibromyalgia and those with concomitant comorbidity&#x02014;a Taiwanese population-based cohort study. PLoS ONE. 2015;10(9): e0137137.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26366998</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR12"><label>12.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR12" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Yang</surname><given-names>TY</given-names></name><name><surname>Kuo</surname><given-names>HT</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>HJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>CS</given-names></name><name><surname>Lin</surname><given-names>WM</given-names></name><name><surname>Tsai</surname><given-names>SY</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Increased risk of chronic fatigue syndrome following atopy: a population-based study</article-title><source>Medicine (Baltimore)</source><year>2015</year><volume>94</volume><issue>29</issue><fpage>e1211</fpage><?supplied-pmid 26200644?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26200644</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR12" publication-type="journal">Yang TY, Kuo HT, Chen HJ, Chen CS, Lin WM, Tsai SY, et al. Increased risk of chronic fatigue syndrome following atopy: a population-based study. Medicine (Baltimore). 2015;94(29):e1211.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26200644</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR13"><label>13.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR13" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Gultuna</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Tezel</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Ozalp Ates</surname><given-names>FS</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Fibromyalgia in the patients with allergic rhinitis: its prevalence and impact on the quality of life</article-title><source>Am J Rhinol Allergy</source><year>2019</year><volume>33</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>716</fpage><lpage>722</lpage><?supplied-pmid 31357878?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31357878</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR13" publication-type="journal">Gultuna S, Tezel N, Ozalp Ates FS. Fibromyalgia in the patients with allergic rhinitis: its prevalence and impact on the quality of life. Am J Rhinol Allergy. 2019;33(6):716&#x02013;22.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31357878</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR14"><label>14.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR14" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sijtsma</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Rienks</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>van der Harst</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Navis</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Rosmalen</surname><given-names>JG</given-names></name><name><surname>Dotinga</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Cohort Profile Update: Lifelines, a three-generation cohort study and biobank</article-title><source>Int J Epidemiol</source><year>2022</year><volume>51</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>e295</fpage><lpage>302</lpage><?supplied-pmid 34897450?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34897450</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR14" publication-type="journal">Sijtsma A, Rienks J, van der Harst P, Navis G, Rosmalen JG, Dotinga A. Cohort Profile Update: Lifelines, a three-generation cohort study and biobank. Int J Epidemiol. 2022;51(5):e295-302.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34897450</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR15"><label>15.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR15" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Klijs</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Scholtens</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Mandemakers</surname><given-names>JJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Snieder</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Stolk</surname><given-names>RP</given-names></name><name><surname>Smidt</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Representativeness of the LifeLines cohort study</article-title><source>PLoS ONE</source><year>2015</year><volume>10</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>e0137203</fpage><?supplied-pmid 26333164?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26333164</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR15" publication-type="journal">Klijs B, Scholtens S, Mandemakers JJ, Snieder H, Stolk RP, Smidt N. Representativeness of the LifeLines cohort study. PLoS ONE. 2015;10(9): e0137203.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">26333164</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR16"><label>16.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR16" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zhang</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Loman</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Voorberg</surname><given-names>AN</given-names></name><name><surname>Schuttelaar</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Prevalence of adult atopic dermatitis in the general population, with a focus on moderate-to-severe disease: results from the Lifelines Cohort Study</article-title><source>J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol</source><year>2021</year><volume>35</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>e787</fpage><lpage>e790</lpage><?supplied-pmid 34161629?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34161629</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR16" publication-type="journal">Zhang J, Loman L, Voorberg AN, Schuttelaar M. Prevalence of adult atopic dermatitis in the general population, with a focus on moderate-to-severe disease: results from the Lifelines Cohort Study. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2021;35(11):e787&#x02013;90.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34161629</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR17"><label>17.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR17" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Fukuda</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Straus</surname><given-names>SE</given-names></name><name><surname>Hickie</surname><given-names>I</given-names></name><name><surname>Sharpe</surname><given-names>MC</given-names></name><name><surname>Dobbins</surname><given-names>JG</given-names></name><name><surname>Komaroff</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The chronic fatigue syndrome: a comprehensive approach to its definition and study</article-title><source>Ann Intern Med</source><year>1994</year><volume>121</volume><issue>12</issue><fpage>953</fpage><lpage>959</lpage><?supplied-pmid 7978722?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">7978722</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR17" publication-type="journal">Fukuda K, Straus SE, Hickie I, Sharpe MC, Dobbins JG, Komaroff A, et al. The chronic fatigue syndrome: a comprehensive approach to its definition and study. Ann Intern Med. 1994;121(12):953&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">7978722</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR18"><label>18.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR18" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wolfe</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Clauw</surname><given-names>DJ</given-names></name><name><surname>Fitzcharles</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Goldenberg</surname><given-names>DL</given-names></name><name><surname>Katz</surname><given-names>RS</given-names></name><name><surname>Mease</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The American College of Rheumatology preliminary diagnostic criteria for fibromyalgia and measurement of symptom severity</article-title><source>Arthritis Care Res</source><year>2010</year><volume>62</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>600</fpage><lpage>610</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR18" publication-type="journal">Wolfe F, Clauw DJ, Fitzcharles M, Goldenberg DL, Katz RS, Mease P, et al. The American College of Rheumatology preliminary diagnostic criteria for fibromyalgia and measurement of symptom severity. Arthritis Care Res. 2010;62(5):600&#x02013;10.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR19"><label>19.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR19" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Drossman</surname><given-names>DA</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The functional gastrointestinal disorders and the Rome III process</article-title><source>gastroenterology</source><year>2006</year><volume>130</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>1377</fpage><lpage>90</lpage><?supplied-pmid 16678553?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">16678553</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR19" publication-type="journal">Drossman DA. The functional gastrointestinal disorders and the Rome III process. gastroenterology. 2006;130(5):1377&#x02013;90.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">16678553</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR20"><label>20.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR20" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Drossman</surname><given-names>DA</given-names></name><name><surname>Hasler</surname><given-names>WL</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Rome IV&#x02014;functional GI disorders: disorders of gut-brain interaction</article-title><source>Gastroenterology</source><year>2016</year><volume>150</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>1257</fpage><lpage>1261</lpage><?supplied-pmid 27147121?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27147121</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR20" publication-type="journal">Drossman DA, Hasler WL. Rome IV&#x02014;functional GI disorders: disorders of gut-brain interaction. Gastroenterology. 2016;150(6):1257&#x02013;61.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">27147121</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR21"><label>21.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR21" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Sheehan</surname><given-names>DV</given-names></name><name><surname>Lecrubier</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Sheehan</surname><given-names>KH</given-names></name><name><surname>Amorim</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Janavs</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Weiller</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI): the development and validation of a structured diagnostic psychiatric interview for DSM-IV and ICD-10</article-title><source>J Clin Psychiatry</source><year>1998</year><volume>59</volume><issue>20</issue><fpage>22</fpage><lpage>33</lpage><?supplied-pmid 9881538?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">9881538</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR21" publication-type="journal">Sheehan DV, Lecrubier Y, Sheehan KH, Amorim P, Janavs J, Weiller E, et al. The Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI): the development and validation of a structured diagnostic psychiatric interview for DSM-IV and ICD-10. J Clin Psychiatry. 1998;59(20):22&#x02013;33.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">9881538</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR22"><label>22.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">American Psychiatric Association. Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders. 4th, text rev. ed.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR23"><label>23.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR23" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Triatin</surname><given-names>RD</given-names></name><name><surname>Chen</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Ani</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Wang</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><name><surname>Hartman</surname><given-names>CA</given-names></name><name><surname>Nolte</surname><given-names>IM</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Familial co-aggregation and shared genetics of cardiometabolic disorders and traits: data from the multi-generational Lifelines Cohort Study</article-title><source>Cardiovasc Diabetol</source><year>2023</year><volume>22</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>282</fpage><?supplied-pmid 37865744?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37865744</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR23" publication-type="journal">Triatin RD, Chen Z, Ani A, Wang R, Hartman CA, Nolte IM, et al. Familial co-aggregation and shared genetics of cardiometabolic disorders and traits: data from the multi-generational Lifelines Cohort Study. Cardiovasc Diabetol. 2023;22(1):282.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37865744</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR24"><label>24.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Copenhagen: WHO Regional Office for Europe. WHO European Regional Obesity Report 2022. 2022.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR25"><label>25.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR25" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bedogni</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Bellentani</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Miglioli</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Masutti</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Passalacqua</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Castiglione</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The Fatty Liver Index: a simple and accurate predictor of hepatic steatosis in the general population</article-title><source>BMC Gastroenterol</source><year>2006</year><volume>6</volume><fpage>1</fpage><lpage>7</lpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">16396681</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR25" publication-type="journal">Bedogni G, Bellentani S, Miglioli L, Masutti F, Passalacqua M, Castiglione A, et al. The Fatty Liver Index: a simple and accurate predictor of hepatic steatosis in the general population. BMC Gastroenterol. 2006;6:1&#x02013;7.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">16396681</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR26"><label>26.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR26" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>van der Ende</surname><given-names>MY</given-names></name><name><surname>Hartman</surname><given-names>MH</given-names></name><name><surname>Schurer</surname><given-names>RA</given-names></name><name><surname>van der Werf</surname><given-names>HW</given-names></name><name><surname>Lipsic</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Snieder</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Prevalence of electrocardiographic unrecognized myocardial infarction and its association with mortality</article-title><source>Int J Cardiol</source><year>2017</year><volume>243</volume><fpage>34</fpage><lpage>39</lpage><?supplied-pmid 28549748?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28549748</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR26" publication-type="journal">van der Ende MY, Hartman MH, Schurer RA, van der Werf HW, Lipsic E, Snieder H, et al. Prevalence of electrocardiographic unrecognized myocardial infarction and its association with mortality. Int J Cardiol. 2017;243:34&#x02013;9.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">28549748</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR27"><label>27.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR27" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Westra</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Brouwer</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Raveling-Eelsing</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Arends</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Eman Abdulle</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Roozendaal</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Arthritis autoantibodies in individuals without rheumatoid arthritis: follow-up data from a Dutch population-based cohort (lifelines)</article-title><source>Rheumatology</source><year>2021</year><volume>60</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>658</fpage><lpage>666</lpage><?supplied-pmid 32594174?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32594174</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR27" publication-type="journal">Westra J, Brouwer E, Raveling-Eelsing E, Arends S, Eman Abdulle A, Roozendaal C, et al. Arthritis autoantibodies in individuals without rheumatoid arthritis: follow-up data from a Dutch population-based cohort (lifelines). Rheumatology. 2021;60(2):658&#x02013;66.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32594174</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR28"><label>28.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR28" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Williams</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Jburney</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Pembroke</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Hay</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Atopic Dermatitis Diagnostic Criteria Working Party. The UK Working Party&#x02019;s diagnostic criteria for atopic dermatitis. III. Independent hospital validation</article-title><source>Br J Dermatol</source><year>1994</year><volume>131</volume><issue>3</issue><fpage>406</fpage><lpage>16</lpage><?supplied-pmid 7918017?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">7918017</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR28" publication-type="journal">Williams H, Jburney P, Pembroke A, Hay R, Atopic Dermatitis Diagnostic Criteria Working Party. The UK Working Party&#x02019;s diagnostic criteria for atopic dermatitis. III. Independent hospital validation. Br J Dermatol. 1994;131(3):406&#x02013;16.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">7918017</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR29"><label>29.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR29" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Westerlaken-van Ginkel</surname><given-names>CD</given-names></name><name><surname>Vonk</surname><given-names>JM</given-names></name><name><surname>Flokstra-de Blok</surname><given-names>BM</given-names></name><name><surname>Sprikkelman</surname><given-names>AB</given-names></name><name><surname>Koppelman</surname><given-names>GH</given-names></name><name><surname>Dubois</surname><given-names>AE</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Likely questionnaire-diagnosed food allergy in 78, 890 adults from the northern Netherlands</article-title><source>PLoS ONE</source><year>2020</year><volume>15</volume><issue>5</issue><fpage>e0231818</fpage><?supplied-pmid 32401757?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32401757</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR29" publication-type="journal">Westerlaken-van Ginkel CD, Vonk JM, Flokstra-de Blok BM, Sprikkelman AB, Koppelman GH, Dubois AE. Likely questionnaire-diagnosed food allergy in 78, 890 adults from the northern Netherlands. PLoS ONE. 2020;15(5): e0231818.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">32401757</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR30"><label>30.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Casella G, Berger, R. L. Statistical Inference. 2nd ed. Duxbury Press; 2002.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR31"><label>31.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">R Core Team. R: A language and environment for statistical computing [Internet]. Vienna, Austria; 2021. Available from: <ext-link ext-link-type="uri" xlink:href="https://www.R-project.org/">https://www.R-project.org/</ext-link></mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR32"><label>32.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR32" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Arel-Bundock</surname><given-names>V</given-names></name><name><surname>Greifer</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Heiss</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>How to interpret statistical models using marginaleffects in R and Python</article-title><source>J Stat Softw</source><year>2024</year><volume>55</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>31</fpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR32" publication-type="journal">Arel-Bundock V, Greifer N, Heiss A. How to interpret statistical models using marginaleffects in R and Python. J Stat Softw. 2024;55(2):31.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR33"><label>33.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR33" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zeileis</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>K&#x000f6;ll</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Graham</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Various versatile variances: an object-oriented implementation of clustered covariances in R</article-title><source>J Stat Softw</source><year>2020</year><volume>95</volume><fpage>1</fpage><lpage>36</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR33" publication-type="journal">Zeileis A, K&#x000f6;ll S, Graham N. Various versatile variances: an object-oriented implementation of clustered covariances in R. J Stat Softw. 2020;95:1&#x02013;36.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR34"><label>34.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR34" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Demela</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Pirastu</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><name><surname>Soskic</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Cross-disorder genetic analysis of immune diseases reveals distinct gene associations that converge on common pathways</article-title><source>Nat Commun</source><year>2023</year><volume>14</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>2743</fpage><?supplied-pmid 37173304?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37173304</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR34" publication-type="journal">Demela P, Pirastu N, Soskic B. Cross-disorder genetic analysis of immune diseases reveals distinct gene associations that converge on common pathways. Nat Commun. 2023;14(1):2743.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37173304</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR35"><label>35.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Risch N. Linkage strategies for genetically complex traits. I. Multilocus models. Am J Hum Genet. 1990;46(2):222.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR36"><label>36.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR36" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Kendler</surname><given-names>KS</given-names></name><name><surname>Neale</surname><given-names>MC</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>&#x0201c;Familiality&#x0201d; or heritability</article-title><source>Arch Gen Psychiatry</source><year>2009</year><volume>66</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>452</fpage><lpage>453</lpage><?supplied-pmid 19349315?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">19349315</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR36" publication-type="journal">Kendler KS, Neale MC. &#x0201c;Familiality&#x0201d; or heritability. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 2009;66(4):452&#x02013;3.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">19349315</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR37"><label>37.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR37" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wray</surname><given-names>NR</given-names></name><name><surname>Gottesman</surname><given-names>II</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Using summary data from the danish national registers to estimate heritabilities for schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and major depressive disorder</article-title><source>Front Genet</source><year>2012</year><volume>3</volume><fpage>118</fpage><?supplied-pmid 22783273?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22783273</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR37" publication-type="journal">Wray NR, Gottesman II. Using summary data from the danish national registers to estimate heritabilities for schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and major depressive disorder. Front Genet. 2012;3:118.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22783273</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR38"><label>38.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR38" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Falconer</surname><given-names>DS</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The inheritance of liability to certain diseases, estimated from the incidence among relatives</article-title><source>Ann Hum Genet</source><year>1965</year><volume>29</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>51</fpage><lpage>76</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR38" publication-type="journal">Falconer DS. The inheritance of liability to certain diseases, estimated from the incidence among relatives. Ann Hum Genet. 1965;29(1):51&#x02013;76.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR39"><label>39.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR39" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Benjamini</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Hochberg</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Controlling the false discovery rate: a practical and powerful approach to multiple testing</article-title><source>J R Stat Soc Ser B Methodol</source><year>1995</year><volume>57</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>289</fpage><lpage>300</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR39" publication-type="journal">Benjamini Y, Hochberg Y. Controlling the false discovery rate: a practical and powerful approach to multiple testing. J R Stat Soc Ser B Methodol. 1995;57(1):289&#x02013;300.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR40"><label>40.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR40" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Nevriana</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Pierce</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Abel</surname><given-names>KM</given-names></name><name><surname>Rossides</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Wicks</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Dalman</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association between parental mental illness and autoimmune diseases in the offspring&#x02013;a nationwide register-based cohort study in Sweden</article-title><source>J Psychiatr Res</source><year>2022</year><volume>151</volume><fpage>122</fpage><lpage>130</lpage><?supplied-pmid 35477076?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35477076</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR40" publication-type="journal">Nevriana A, Pierce M, Abel KM, Rossides M, Wicks S, Dalman C, et al. Association between parental mental illness and autoimmune diseases in the offspring&#x02013;a nationwide register-based cohort study in Sweden. J Psychiatr Res. 2022;151:122&#x02013;30.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35477076</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR41"><label>41.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR41" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Liu</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Leone</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Ludvigsson</surname><given-names>JF</given-names></name><name><surname>Lichtenstein</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>D&#x02019;Onofrio</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Svensson</surname><given-names>AM</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association and familial coaggregation of childhood-onset type 1 diabetes with depression, anxiety, and stress-related disorders: a population-based cohort study</article-title><source>Diabetes Care</source><year>2022</year><volume>45</volume><issue>9</issue><fpage>1987</fpage><lpage>1993</lpage><?supplied-pmid 35913075?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35913075</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR41" publication-type="journal">Liu S, Leone M, Ludvigsson JF, Lichtenstein P, D&#x02019;Onofrio B, Svensson AM, et al. Association and familial coaggregation of childhood-onset type 1 diabetes with depression, anxiety, and stress-related disorders: a population-based cohort study. Diabetes Care. 2022;45(9):1987&#x02013;93.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">35913075</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR42"><label>42.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR42" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Brew</surname><given-names>BK</given-names></name><name><surname>Lundholm</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Gong</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Larsson</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Almqvist</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The familial aggregation of atopic diseases and depression or anxiety in children</article-title><source>Clin Exp Allergy</source><year>2018</year><volume>48</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>703</fpage><lpage>711</lpage><?supplied-pmid 29513367?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29513367</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR42" publication-type="journal">Brew BK, Lundholm C, Gong T, Larsson H, Almqvist C. The familial aggregation of atopic diseases and depression or anxiety in children. Clin Exp Allergy. 2018;48(6):703&#x02013;11.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29513367</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR43"><label>43.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR43" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Meijsen</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Hu</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><name><surname>Krebs</surname><given-names>MD</given-names></name><name><surname>Athanasiadis</surname><given-names>G</given-names></name><name><surname>Washbrook</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Zetterberg</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Quantifying the relative importance of genetics and environment on the comorbidity between mental and cardiometabolic disorders using 17 million Scandinavians</article-title><source>Nat Commun</source><year>2024</year><volume>15</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>5064</fpage><?supplied-pmid 38871766?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38871766</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR43" publication-type="journal">Meijsen J, Hu K, Krebs MD, Athanasiadis G, Washbrook S, Zetterberg R, et al. Quantifying the relative importance of genetics and environment on the comorbidity between mental and cardiometabolic disorders using 17 million Scandinavians. Nat Commun. 2024;15(1):5064.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38871766</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR44"><label>44.</label><mixed-citation publication-type="other">Friligkou E, L&#x000f8;khammer S, Cabrera-Mendoza B, Shen J, He J, Deiana G, et al. Gene discovery and biological insights into anxiety disorders from a large-scale multi-ancestry genome-wide association study. Nat Genet. 2024;1&#x02013;10.</mixed-citation></ref><ref id="CR45"><label>45.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR45" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Tylee</surname><given-names>DS</given-names></name><name><surname>Sun</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Hess</surname><given-names>JL</given-names></name><name><surname>Tahir</surname><given-names>MA</given-names></name><name><surname>Sharma</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Malik</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Genetic correlations among psychiatric and immune-related phenotypes based on genome-wide association data</article-title><source>Am J Med Genet B Neuropsychiatr Genet</source><year>2018</year><volume>177</volume><issue>7</issue><fpage>641</fpage><lpage>657</lpage><?supplied-pmid 30325587?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30325587</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR45" publication-type="journal">Tylee DS, Sun J, Hess JL, Tahir MA, Sharma E, Malik R, et al. Genetic correlations among psychiatric and immune-related phenotypes based on genome-wide association data. Am J Med Genet B Neuropsychiatr Genet. 2018;177(7):641&#x02013;57.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">30325587</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR46"><label>46.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR46" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Bergstedt</surname><given-names>J</given-names></name><name><surname>Pasman</surname><given-names>JA</given-names></name><name><surname>Ma</surname><given-names>Z</given-names></name><name><surname>Harder</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Yao</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Parker</surname><given-names>N</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Distinct biological signature and modifiable risk factors underlie the comorbidity between major depressive disorder and cardiovascular disease</article-title><source>Nat Cardiovasc Res</source><year>2024</year><volume>3</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>754</fpage><lpage>769</lpage><?supplied-pmid 39215135?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39215135</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR46" publication-type="journal">Bergstedt J, Pasman JA, Ma Z, Harder A, Yao S, Parker N, et al. Distinct biological signature and modifiable risk factors underlie the comorbidity between major depressive disorder and cardiovascular disease. Nat Cardiovasc Res. 2024;3(6):754&#x02013;69.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">39215135</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR47"><label>47.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR47" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Zeng</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Suo</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Yao</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Lu</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Larsson</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>D&#x02019;Onofrio</surname><given-names>BM</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Genetic associations between stress-related disorders and autoimmune disease</article-title><source>Am J Psychiatry</source><year>2023</year><volume>180</volume><issue>4</issue><fpage>294</fpage><lpage>304</lpage><?supplied-pmid 37002690?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37002690</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR47" publication-type="journal">Zeng Y, Suo C, Yao S, Lu D, Larsson H, D&#x02019;Onofrio BM, et al. Genetic associations between stress-related disorders and autoimmune disease. Am J Psychiatry. 2023;180(4):294&#x02013;304.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">37002690</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR48"><label>48.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR48" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Eijsbouts</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Zheng</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Kennedy</surname><given-names>NA</given-names></name><name><surname>Bonfiglio</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Anderson</surname><given-names>CA</given-names></name><name><surname>Moutsianas</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Genome-wide analysis of 53,400 people with irritable bowel syndrome highlights shared genetic pathways with mood and anxiety disorders</article-title><source>Nat Genet</source><year>2021</year><volume>53</volume><issue>11</issue><fpage>1543</fpage><lpage>1552</lpage><?supplied-pmid 34741163?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34741163</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR48" publication-type="journal">Eijsbouts C, Zheng T, Kennedy NA, Bonfiglio F, Anderson CA, Moutsianas L, et al. Genome-wide analysis of 53,400 people with irritable bowel syndrome highlights shared genetic pathways with mood and anxiety disorders. Nat Genet. 2021;53(11):1543&#x02013;52.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34741163</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR49"><label>49.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR49" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Tavares</surname><given-names>LC</given-names></name><name><surname>Lopera-Maya</surname><given-names>EA</given-names></name><name><surname>Bonfiglio</surname><given-names>F</given-names></name><name><surname>Zheng</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Sinha</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Marques</surname><given-names>FZ</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Rome III Criteria Capture Higher Irritable Bowel Syndrome SNP-Heritability and Highlight a Novel Genetic Link with Cardiovascular Traits</article-title><source>Cell Mol Gastroenterol Hepatol</source><year>2024</year><volume>18</volume><issue>2</issue><fpage>101345</fpage><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38643935</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR49" publication-type="journal">Tavares LC, Lopera-Maya EA, Bonfiglio F, Zheng T, Sinha T, Marques FZ, et al. Rome III Criteria Capture Higher Irritable Bowel Syndrome SNP-Heritability and Highlight a Novel Genetic Link with Cardiovascular Traits. Cell Mol Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2024;18(2): 101345.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">38643935</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR50"><label>50.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR50" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Milaneschi</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Simmons</surname><given-names>WK</given-names></name><name><surname>van Rossum</surname><given-names>EF</given-names></name><name><surname>Penninx</surname><given-names>BW</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Depression and obesity: evidence of shared biological mechanisms</article-title><source>Mol Psychiatry</source><year>2019</year><volume>24</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>18</fpage><lpage>33</lpage><?supplied-pmid 29453413?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29453413</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR50" publication-type="journal">Milaneschi Y, Simmons WK, van Rossum EF, Penninx BW. Depression and obesity: evidence of shared biological mechanisms. Mol Psychiatry. 2019;24(1):18&#x02013;33.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">29453413</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR51"><label>51.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR51" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Black</surname><given-names>CN</given-names></name><name><surname>Bot</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Scheffer</surname><given-names>PG</given-names></name><name><surname>Cuijpers</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Penninx</surname><given-names>BW</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Is depression associated with increased oxidative stress?</article-title><source>A systematic review and meta-analysis Psychoneuroendocrinology</source><year>2015</year><volume>51</volume><fpage>164</fpage><lpage>175</lpage><?supplied-pmid 25462890?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25462890</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR51" publication-type="journal">Black CN, Bot M, Scheffer PG, Cuijpers P, Penninx BW. Is depression associated with increased oxidative stress? A systematic review and meta-analysis Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2015;51:164&#x02013;75.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">25462890</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR52"><label>52.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR52" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Foster</surname><given-names>JA</given-names></name><name><surname>Baker</surname><given-names>GB</given-names></name><name><surname>Dursun</surname><given-names>SM</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>The relationship between the gut microbiome-immune system-brain axis and major depressive disorder</article-title><source>Front Neurol</source><year>2021</year><volume>12</volume><fpage>721126</fpage><?supplied-pmid 34650506?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34650506</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR52" publication-type="journal">Foster JA, Baker GB, Dursun SM. The relationship between the gut microbiome-immune system-brain axis and major depressive disorder. Front Neurol. 2021;12: 721126.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">34650506</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR53"><label>53.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR53" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Marx</surname><given-names>W</given-names></name><name><surname>Lane</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Hockey</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Aslam</surname><given-names>H</given-names></name><name><surname>Berk</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Walder</surname><given-names>K</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Diet and depression: exploring the biological mechanisms of action</article-title><source>Mol Psychiatry</source><year>2021</year><volume>26</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>134</fpage><lpage>150</lpage><?supplied-pmid 33144709?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33144709</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR53" publication-type="journal">Marx W, Lane M, Hockey M, Aslam H, Berk M, Walder K, et al. Diet and depression: exploring the biological mechanisms of action. Mol Psychiatry. 2021;26(1):134&#x02013;50.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">33144709</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR54"><label>54.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR54" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Pearce</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Garcia</surname><given-names>L</given-names></name><name><surname>Abbas</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>Strain</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>Schuch</surname><given-names>FB</given-names></name><name><surname>Golubic</surname><given-names>R</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>Association between physical activity and risk of depression: a systematic review and meta-analysis</article-title><source>JAMA Psychiat</source><year>2022</year><volume>79</volume><issue>6</issue><fpage>550</fpage><lpage>559</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR54" publication-type="journal">Pearce M, Garcia L, Abbas A, Strain T, Schuch FB, Golubic R, et al. Association between physical activity and risk of depression: a systematic review and meta-analysis. JAMA Psychiat. 2022;79(6):550&#x02013;9.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR55"><label>55.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR55" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Loevinger</surname><given-names>BL</given-names></name><name><surname>Shirtcliff</surname><given-names>EA</given-names></name><name><surname>Muller</surname><given-names>D</given-names></name><name><surname>Alonso</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Coe</surname><given-names>CL</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Delineating psychological and biomedical profiles in a heterogeneous fibromyalgia population using cluster analysis</article-title><source>Clin Rheumatol</source><year>2012</year><volume>31</volume><fpage>677</fpage><lpage>685</lpage><?supplied-pmid 22200814?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22200814</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR55" publication-type="journal">Loevinger BL, Shirtcliff EA, Muller D, Alonso C, Coe CL. Delineating psychological and biomedical profiles in a heterogeneous fibromyalgia population using cluster analysis. Clin Rheumatol. 2012;31:677&#x02013;85.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">22200814</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR56"><label>56.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR56" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Vaes</surname><given-names>AW</given-names></name><name><surname>Van Herck</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Deng</surname><given-names>Q</given-names></name><name><surname>Delbressine</surname><given-names>JM</given-names></name><name><surname>Jason</surname><given-names>LA</given-names></name><name><surname>Spruit</surname><given-names>MA</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Symptom-based clusters in people with ME/CFS: an illustration of clinical variety in a cross-sectional cohort</article-title><source>J Transl Med</source><year>2023</year><volume>21</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>112</fpage><?supplied-pmid 36765375?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36765375</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR56" publication-type="journal">Vaes AW, Van Herck M, Deng Q, Delbressine JM, Jason LA, Spruit MA. Symptom-based clusters in people with ME/CFS: an illustration of clinical variety in a cross-sectional cohort. J Transl Med. 2023;21(1):112.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36765375</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR57"><label>57.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR57" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Lubke</surname><given-names>GH</given-names></name><name><surname>Muth&#x000e9;n</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Investigating population heterogeneity with factor mixture models</article-title><source>Psychol Methods</source><year>2005</year><volume>10</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>21</fpage><?supplied-pmid 15810867?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15810867</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR57" publication-type="journal">Lubke GH, Muth&#x000e9;n B. Investigating population heterogeneity with factor mixture models. Psychol Methods. 2005;10(1):21.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">15810867</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR58"><label>58.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR58" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Castro-de-Araujo</surname><given-names>LF</given-names></name><name><surname>Singh</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><name><surname>Zhou</surname><given-names>Y</given-names></name><name><surname>Vinh</surname><given-names>P</given-names></name><name><surname>Verhulst</surname><given-names>B</given-names></name><name><surname>Dolan</surname><given-names>CV</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>MR-DoC2: bidirectional causal modeling with instrumental variables and data from relatives</article-title><source>Behav Genet</source><year>2023</year><volume>53</volume><issue>1</issue><fpage>63</fpage><lpage>73</lpage><?supplied-pmid 36322200?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36322200</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR58" publication-type="journal">Castro-de-Araujo LF, Singh M, Zhou Y, Vinh P, Verhulst B, Dolan CV, et al. MR-DoC2: bidirectional causal modeling with instrumental variables and data from relatives. Behav Genet. 2023;53(1):63&#x02013;73.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">36322200</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR59"><label>59.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR59" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Wessely</surname><given-names>S</given-names></name><name><surname>Nimnuan</surname><given-names>C</given-names></name><name><surname>Sharpe</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name></person-group><article-title>Functional somatic syndromes: one or many?</article-title><source>The Lancet</source><year>1999</year><volume>354</volume><issue>9182</issue><fpage>936</fpage><lpage>939</lpage></element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR59" publication-type="journal">Wessely S, Nimnuan C, Sharpe M. Functional somatic syndromes: one or many? The Lancet. 1999;354(9182):936&#x02013;9.</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref><ref id="CR60"><label>60.</label><citation-alternatives><element-citation id="ec-CR60" publication-type="journal"><person-group person-group-type="author"><name><surname>Petersen</surname><given-names>MW</given-names></name><name><surname>Schr&#x000f6;der</surname><given-names>A</given-names></name><name><surname>J&#x000f8;rgensen</surname><given-names>T</given-names></name><name><surname>&#x000d8;rnb&#x000f8;l</surname><given-names>E</given-names></name><name><surname>Dantoft</surname><given-names>TM</given-names></name><name><surname>Eliasen</surname><given-names>M</given-names></name><etal/></person-group><article-title>The unifying diagnostic construct of bodily distress syndrome (BDS) was confirmed in the general population</article-title><source>J Psychosom Res</source><year>2020</year><volume>128</volume><fpage>109868</fpage><?supplied-pmid 31759195?><pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31759195</pub-id>
</element-citation><mixed-citation id="mc-CR60" publication-type="journal">Petersen MW, Schr&#x000f6;der A, J&#x000f8;rgensen T, &#x000d8;rnb&#x000f8;l E, Dantoft TM, Eliasen M, et al. The unifying diagnostic construct of bodily distress syndrome (BDS) was confirmed in the general population. J Psychosom Res. 2020;128: 109868.<pub-id pub-id-type="pmid">31759195</pub-id>
</mixed-citation></citation-alternatives></ref></ref-list></back></article>